---
tags: []
title: How_to_Hold_Virtual_Office_Hours
---
Thanks to technology, you can now help students troubleshoot bugs by
observing or sharing control of their screen while chatting with them
via IM or VOIP, no matter where you are on campus (or beyond). This
article explains how to hold virtual office hours (VOHs) in CS50's
virtual terminal room (VTR). The VTR does offer features beyond those
described herein; do feel free to play.

[[]]
Entering the Virtual Terminal Room
----------------------------------

Follow the link to the virtual terminal room on the left-hand side of
the course's website. You will be advised to confirm that your computer
meets minimum system requirements. You will also be informed as to
whether your computer appears to have the required software installed;
if it does not, you will be provided with directions on how to download
and install the software (for free).

Enter the VTR by clicking the button labeled *Enter VTR*. If prompted
thereafter to click one or more other buttons in order to *accept*,
*agree*, *download*, *open*, *run*, *trust*, *unblock*, or the like, do
so.

Within a few seconds, the VTR should open in a separate window like the
below.

image:Holdvohs1.png[Holdvohs1.png,title="image"]

If you are not granted moderator privileges automatically or are logged
in under a generic *CS50 Staff* pseudonym, let
mailto:heads@cs50.net[heads@] know immediately so we can grant your
actual identity moderator privileges.

[[]]
Responding to Raised Hands
--------------------------

By default, students will be in the *Main Room*, as in the below.

image:Holdvohs2.png[Holdvohs2.png,title="image"]

Anytime a hand goes up, not only should you hear a beep, the number of
hands up will start flashing, as in the below. Moreover, students will
be numbered and sorted according to the order in which their hands went
up.

image:Holdvohs3.png[Holdvohs3.png,title="image"]

If you wish to stop the flashing, simply click the flashing blue
rectangle.

To work with a student one-on-one (e.g., Ron Weasley, since his hand
went up first), first click your name and his while holding Ctrl to
highlight both, then right-click (on a PC) or ctrl-click (on a Mac)
either of your names, and select *Send to Breakout Room → New Private
Breakout Room*. (You can pull multiple students into the same room by
highlighting them too.) Click the number to the left of the student's
name so as to lower his hand (so that other students know they're moving
up in the queue). The result will resemble the below.

image:Holdvohs4.png[Holdvohs4.png,title="image"]

Anything you do or say in this private room will only be seen or heard
by the student(s) that you have pulled into it.

Try not to background or minimize the VTR's window while holding VOHs,
lest you not notice when a student's hand is up!

[[]]
Sharing Control of a Student's Computer
---------------------------------------

To request control of a student's computer, be sure to pull him or her
into a private room with you first. Next, click his or her name to
highlight it, then right-click (on a PC) or ctrl-click (on a Mac) his or
her name, and select *Request Desktop Control*.

The student will then be prompted with a window like the below.

image:Holdvohs5.png[Holdvohs5.png,title="image"]

Provided the student clicks *Yes*, you will then have shared control of
the student's computer. (However, students can, for privacy's sake,
share one or more windows as opposed to their whole desktop, in which
case you might receive control of just those windows.)

Do respect students' privacy and do not, even in jest, start poking
around their computers, lest they become reluctant to return to virtual
office hours in the future.

Note that the virtual terminal room's layout might change when you take
control of the student's computer. To restore its original layout,
select *View → Layouts → Default Layout*.

[[]]
Using the Whiteboard
--------------------

By default, the whiteboard simply welcomes students to the virtual
terminal room. However, you can post images to the whiteboard, draw on
it, and more, especially in private rooms whose whiteboards are blank by
default. Anyone in the same room as you can see what you do with the
whiteboard. Hover over each of the whiteboard's tools to get a sense of
the whiteboard's features. Depicted below is a private room's blank
whiteboard.

image:Holdvohs6.png[Holdvohs6.png,title="image"]

[[]]
Talking to Students
-------------------

Talking to students via IM is pretty straightforward. You can IM
students in all rooms, students in the room you're in, students in
another room altogether, individual students, etc. You can also filter
your history of IMs. The below depicts how you might inform everyone
that you need to step out for a few minutes.

image:Holdvohs7.png[Holdvohs7.png,title="image"]

Talking to students via VOIP is also pretty straightforward, provided
you and they have decent audio setups. Headsets are ideal, though
microphones and speakers built into your computers can also work. To
talk to the student(s) in the room that you are in, simply click *Talk*,
as in the below.

image:Holdvohs8.png[Holdvohs8.png,title="image"]

By default, only one person can talk at a time, so be sure not to leave
*Talk* depressed if you expect a student to talk back (or your roommate
to say something embarrassing). You can allow multiple people to talk at
once by selecting *Tools → Audio → Allow Simultaneous Talkers...*.

[[]]
Getting a Student's Attention
-----------------------------

If a student doesn't seem to be paying attention, you can not only IM
him or her privately but also trigger a pop-up on his or her screen by
depressing the *Chat* area's megaphone before sending your message, as
in the below.

image:Holdvohs9.png[Holdvohs9.png,title="image"]

Alternatively, though it's a bit of a hack, you can compel the student's
computer to beep (assuming the student's volume is up) by selecting
*Tools → Timer → Start Timer...* and starting an audible 1-second timer,
as in the below.

image:Holdvohs10.png[Holdvohs10.png,title="image"]

[[]]
Stepping Away
-------------

If you need to step away from your computer altogether during virtual
office hours, do indicate as much by clicking the door icon in the
*Participants* area, per the below.

image:Holdvohs11.png[Holdvohs11.png,title="image"]

[[]]
Juggling Multiple Students at Once
----------------------------------

For efficiency's sake, you might want to try helping multiple students
simultaneously. Although students cannot move from room to room on their
own, you, as a moderator, can bounce from room to room. You might, then,
want to put a few students at once into a few different rooms so that
they can all start sharing their terminal windows even if they're to be
in the rooms alone most of the time. Ideally, they'll at least be ready
to show you what they're working on when you do pop into the room. The
below captures this sort of multitasking.

image:Holdvohs12.png[Holdvohs12.png,title="image"]

Just realize that if you put multiple students in the same room, they
can technically see what's on each other's screen, which probably isn't
your goal.

To return a student to the *Main Room* once you're done helping him or
her, first highlight his or her name, then right-click (on a PC) or
ctrl-click (on a Mac) their name, and select *Send to Breakout Room →
Main Room*. Be careful not to select *Return Everyone to Main Room*,
lest you destroy another other moderators' private rooms. In any case,
it's fine to leave students in private rooms, even with their hands
down, unless you want them to be able to chat with other students in the
*Main Room*.

To move yourself from room to room simply highlight your name, then
right-click (on a PC) or ctrl-click (on a Mac) your name, and select
*Send to Breakout Room*, followed by the name of the private room that
you would like to enter.

Alternatively, you can log yourself into the virtual terminal room
multiple times, the upside of which is multiple windows. Name-wise,
you'll be logged in as David J. Malan, David J. Malan 1, David J. Malan
2, and so forth, at least if you're me. Before clicking *Enter* again on
the course's website, though, open a brand-new browser window by
clicking your browser's icon so that your browser passes a different
cookie to the virtual terminal room.

[[]]
For More Information
--------------------

Again, do feel free to play, as the virtual terminal room does offer
more features than those described herein. Do pass along your findings
(plus any tips or tricks) to other teaching fellows.

For additional answers to questions of the form *How do I...?*, visit
the http://support.elluminate.com/[Elluminate Help Desk].

You're welcome to register for
http://www.elluminate.com/Services/Training/?id=70[free online
training].

A number of
http://sas.elluminate.com/site/external/event/playback[recorded
demonstrations and events] are also available to watch.

And don't hesitate to call 1-866-388-8674, option 2, if you'd like your
questions answered by actual humans!
