---
tags: []
title: WinSCP
---

*WinSCP* is an open source SFTP client and FTP client for Windows. It
facilitates secure file transfer.

If you haven't already, head on over to
http://winscp.net/eng/download.php and download the installation
package. Once downloaded, double-click the icon to run and install. It's
fine to breeze through, leaving the defaults (do watch for third-party
recommendations and select no if you don't want extra, irrelevant
software).

Like SSH'ing, you'll be SFTP'ing to cloud.cs50.net.


Starting a Session
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After launching the program by double-clicking its icon, you should see
a window like the following:

image:WSCPLogin.jpg[WSCPLogin.jpg,title="image"]

For the host name, type *cloud.cs50.net*. Type in your cloud username
and password for future convenience. Leave the port number and other
settings be, as seen below:

image:WSCPSession.jpg[WSCPSession.jpg,title="image"]

Hit *Save* to save the session. You'll be prompted to name the session;
leaving it as cloud.cs50.net is fine. Hit *OK* and you should be a
window similar to that below, showing your stored (saved) sessions:

image:WSCPStored.jpg[WSCPStored.jpg,title="image"]

Double-click the cloud.cs50.net session to connect. A window should
appear to show connection status. If a warning like that below appears,
click *Yes*.

image:WSCPKey.jpg[WSCPKey.jpg,title="image"]

If your username and password weren't saved, you'll be prompted here to
enter it in a text field, like:

image:WSCPun.jpg[WSCPun.jpg,title="image"]
image:WSCPpwd.jpg[WSCPpwd.jpg,title="image"]


Transferring Files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After logging in, you should be at the main screen, something like:

image:WSCPMain.jpg[WSCPMain.jpg,title="image"]

with your computer's directories in one window (on the left by default),
and your cloud directories in the other (commonly on the right). To
transfer files, use the drop-down menu or double-click the appropriate
folders to navigate to the directories where your file to transfer is in
one window, and where you want to transfer to in the other. (If you need
to create one or more directories in the window, simply left click
within the window and click *Create Directory* at the bottom of the main
window, or press F7.)

image:WSCPNavi.jpg[WSCPNavi.jpg,title="image"]

Once you've your desired file to transfer in one window and directory to
transfer to in the other, drag the file(s) from one window (e.g. your
computer's directories) to the other (e.g. cloud directories). You'll
get a window like that below confirming the file you want to copy over
and where you'll be copying it to.

image:WSCPCopy.jpg[WSCPCopy.jpg,title="image"]

Confirm by hitting *Copy*. A progress window should show up as the
transfer happens, disappearing when done, so you'll see the main window
again. Your file should now be all transferred. =)

(Keyboard shortcuts should work too, e.g. ctrl+c for copy and ctrl+v for
pasting.)
