---
tags: []
title: Vigenère_Cipher
---
Vigenère's cipher is rotational cryptographic algorithm which is
slightly more secure than link:Caesar cipher[Caesar cipher]. Like
link:Caesar cipher[Caesar cipher], Vigenère's cipher takes each
character of the plaintext message and shifts it down the alphabet
wrapping around from "z" to "a" as necessary. However, whereas
link:Caesar cipher[Caesar cipher] uses a single key value to determine
how far down the alphabet to shift each letter, Vigenère's cipher uses
the different letters of a keyword as multiple key values by which the
plaintext message is rotated.

For example, to encrypt a message using Vigenère's cipher, we could
choose the keyword "foo." If our plaintext message is "This is the
plaintext," then the "T" would be shifted by "f," or 5, the "h" would be
shifted by "o," or 14, the "i" would be shifted by "o," or 14, the "s"
would again be shifted by "f," or 5, and so on.

Thanks to the use of multiple key values for a single encryption,
Vigenère's cipher has a larger keyspace than link:Caesar cipher[Caesar
cipher]. Whereas link:Caesar cipher[Caesar cipher] has only 26 possible
keys, Vigenère's cipher has latexmath:[$26^k$] possible keys, where
latexmath:[$k$] is the length of the keyword. Vigenère's larger keyspace
means that it takes longer to crack by brute force, although given
modern-day computing power, the difference is negligible.

Recently, an encrypted message from a Confederate officer dating to the
late days of the Civil War was successfully decrypted by a CIA
codebreaker. The encryption algorithm that was used was Vigenère's
cipher
http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5iGz3gDwkqeW9mTB-5dhbfO6Ns67A?docId=2c762dfe397c42529f5ffe0af391430b[1].
