---
tags: []
title: CSCI_E-52
---
CS50 is offered through http://extension.harvard.edu/[Harvard Extension
School] as
http://extension.harvard.edu/courses/subject/computer-science#52[CSCI
E-52]. Even though the courses' numbers differ, they are one and the
same. The website for both courses lives at https://www.cs50.net/. The
syllabus for both courses lives at https://www.cs50.net/syllabus/.
However, below are exceptions to the syllabus for students enrolled in
CSCI E-52.

[[]]
CS50 Fair
~~~~~~~~~

Students enrolled in CSCI E-52 are welcome to attend the
http://fair.cs50.net/[CS50 Fair]. We will solicit RSVPs one or more
weeks before the Fair itself so that we know whom to expect.

[[]]
CS50 Hackathon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Students enrolled in CSCI E-52 are welcome to attend the
http://hackathon.cs50.net/[CS50 Hackathon]. However, attendance might be
lotteried based on capacity. We will solicit RSVPs one or more weeks
before the Hackathon itself so that we know whom to expect.

[[]]
Grades
~~~~~~

Students enrolled in CSCI E-52 may take the course for graduate credit,
noncredit, or undergraduate credit from
http://extension.harvard.edu/[Harvard Extension School]. *Pass/Fail is
not an option through Harvard Extension School.*

[[]]
Lectures
~~~~~~~~

Students enrolled in CSCI E-52 are welcome to attend
https://www.cs50.net/lectures/[lectures] in Sanders Theater in
http://maps.cs50.net/#f=search&ll=42.37411257777324%2C-71.11905097961426&q=Memorial+Hall&z=16[Memorial
Hall] or watch them on video.

[[]]
Problem Sets
~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Fall 2011, students enrolled in CSCI E-52 are allowed nine late days
instead of the syllabus's stated allowance of four. It remains the case
that only one late day can be "spent" per problem set. Problem sets for
students enrolled in CSCI E-52 are thus always due on Fridays at noon
ET. *Late days cannot be spent to extend deadlines beyond noon ET on
Fridays.*

[[]]
Quizzes
~~~~~~~

In Fall 2011, students enrolled in CSCI E-52 who live in New England may
take CS50's quizzes as follows:

* Quiz 0, Wed 10/12, 5:40pm - 6:55pm,
http://maps.cs50.net/#f=search&ll=42.37411257777324%2C-71.11905097961426&q=Emerson+Hall&z=16[Emerson
Hall] 105
* Quiz 1, Wed 11/16, 5:40pm - 6:55pm,
http://maps.cs50.net/#f=search&ll=42.37411257777324%2C-71.11905097961426&q=Emerson+Hall&z=16[Emerson
Hall] 105

Alternatively, the quizzes may be taken 1:10pm - 2:25pm on those dates
alongside students enrolled in CS50, rooms to be announced.

*If you already made unchangeable travel plans based on David's original
email announcing Thu 10/13 and Thu 11/17 as this fall's quiz dates,
please contact heads@cs50.net to discuss possible Thu quiz times and
locations.*

Students enrolled in CSCI E-52 who do not live in New England, must make
arrangements to take their exams in absentia in a proctored setting at
an alternative location. See
http://www.extension.harvard.edu/distance-education/how-distance-education-works/academic-policy-exam-proctoring
for more details. In particular, be sure to submit your proctor
information through http://dceweb.harvard.edu/ at least 7 days before
each quiz. If taking the quizzes remotely, note that *your proctor will
not be able to download the quizzes until 1:10pm ET on the quiz dates,
even though the Extension School's website might indicate 12:00pm ET.*

[[]]
Sections
~~~~~~~~

Students enrolled in CSCI E-52 may attend
https://www.cs50.net/sections/[sections] on campus or watch them on
video.
