---
tags: []
title: Critiques 2011
---

In Fall 2011, Problem Set 5 asked students:

_Comment in at least a few sentences on some machine, program, or
website whose user interface, you feel, is poorly designed. Don’t focus
too much on aesthetics, since reasonable people can certainly disagree
on the subject of beauty. Focus more on the workflow that the interface
demands of its users. Does it make sense? Does it optimize for the
common case? Is it self-explanatory? Does it require that you go through
eight steps just to get on a train? It’s fine if you have nothing nice
to say about the machine, program, or website with which you find fault.
But be sure you can articulate why its design is subpar and how you
would fix it._

Below are 355 critiques that were about user interfaces at Harvard.


Advising Portal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The student advising portal has ridiculous indecipherable pictures as
links, in place of descriptive words, to the various documents
available. These should be changed to words like "transcript" and "test
scores".

* The Advising Portal is very cumbersome to use. The different tabs use
images which are hard to understand. Therefore, it is very difficult to
find the information that you are searching for. Also, it does a poor
job of centralizing information. The links are not useful. It could be a
great tool, but it is completely underutilized.

* I find the advising network portal page poorly designed. First of all,
on the homepage, there are 7 icons with no accompanying words, so you
have to guess what they are for. On the left, there is a navigation bar
with 3 options (Instructions, FAQ, FERPA). When you choose
"Instructions", it opens a new tab that explains what each of these
icons is for (Student Record, Course Enrollment, etc), but has no links.
Therefore, you have to keep switching between tabs since the linked
icons are in a separate tab from their explanations. This is
inconvenient and confusing (because you might expect that the
instructions page would allow you to go directly to the links). Also,
when you open any of the links on the "Navigation" sidebar and it opens
a new tab, the new tab doesn't have this same sidebar. So no matter
what, you have to switch tabs all the time. To fix this, the designers
could consider a running template so that the navigation sidebar is
always present, making it easier to go back and forth between the home
page and other parts of the site (then you could just open in a new tab
if you wanted to see things side by side). On the Instructions page,
they could make the icons into links. Or they could just add words to
the main page...

* The advising portal is poorly designed because it has a row of
pictures that link to pdf documents containing placement scores,
records, course enrollment, etc., but I never know which icon
corresponds to what, and there is no text underneath the icons. I would
add text clearly satting that this icon corresponds to placement scores
or current course enrollement, etc. Currently there is a separate
"Instructions" page with this information on it, but it seems awkward to
have to open a new tab to know how to use the main page.

* The Advising Portal's course of study planner is organizationally very
hard to follow and functionally very difficult to use. The labels for
links to specific information are not intuitive, nor are the order steps
needed to create a plan. Simple tasks such as removing an old plan
require a lot of effort and searching. I would fix this by creating a
more comprehensive visual layout and having all of the information
available in different fields on the same page, so as to reduce the
searching around and forgetting where you were in the process. I would
also add some more thorough instructions on usage of the tool itself,
rather than just guidelines about the task it is meant to accomplish.


Athletics
~~~~~~~~~

* One website that I have never necessarily been overly fond of is the
gocrimson.com for our athletics here at harvard. The thing I dislike
most about this page is the scrolling pictures that come up on each
page. These are on a constant timer so if you click on one to view it,
it will switch away from you before you are done reading all of what it
has to say. I really think they should make the timer pause if the user
clicks on a specific picture. I do however think they did a good job
with the drop down bars which allows the user to quickly access a
specific sport that they want to view.

* I would critique some of the webpages that I use on the gocrimson
website. The website contains a lot of pages from old years
(specifically for IM sports) when identical pages from newer years
exist. The site is hard to navigate. I use google searches to find the
pages I'm interested instead. Information about facilities is also
scattered and could be better implemented. Schedules, hours, and
telephone numbers could be integrated into a one-stop location. Things
like tennis courts could also be reserved online to. I would recommend
streamlining facility information and making sure that only up to date
online info was available for intramurals. Yahoo Sports or ESPN layouts
could be imitated.


courses.cs50.net
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* In agreement with what I'm sure to be the majority of Harvard
students, I felt that courses.cs50.net was an extremely well-designed
website, with great utility and ease-of-use. I use it consistently over
any other course selection tools simply for its incredible
accessibility, ability to see what my friends are taking, and the ease
with which I can visualize my schedule in a tab. The one slight
discomfort is that when the semester is updated, all the preferences I
had set previously are wiped (i.e. I'm browsing CS courses and select
"spring", and have to start from scratch), but beyond that all of the
website seems very well-built.


Crimson
~~~~~~~

* The Crimson's search feature is God-awful. My seminar teacher actually
recommends not using the site's search feature if at all possible. I've
tried to use it as little as possible, but it's the first thing that
came to mind. It's just bad at finding related articles.

* I hate the Crimson's website. It's user interface/commenting system
allows for some higher power (so-called "journalists") to control all
the content that goes on the commenting pane, thus preventing the
immediacy of the possibility. They also allow users to comment on
previous comments, complicating the hierarchy of the system, it'd be
better to simply do @(insert previous comment's owner) so that you could
read from top to bottom and get everything in order.


CS50 Appliance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The CS50 appliance could use one feature/improvement. A bigger screen.
I have tried changing the screen size and resolution within the
appliance, and it is buggy and doesn't scale up properly. A larger
screen size would improve speed and efficiency for students which would
lead to more Crimson power. Less eye strain means we could all read more
and at a faster rate as well; more CS50 in less time! Perhaps there is a
trick for changing the size without a buggy result, and I don't know
about it. If so, I would love to know! I would love to have a bigger
screen! The speed is alright, but sometimes I wish I could just use my
Mac to code everything up, I do love my "textWrangler" and "Xcode",
however an improved screen size would ease most of my anxieties.

* VIRTUALBOX!! This thing literally has so many problems, and it doesn't
really optimize for the common case. To enable full screen mode, which
I'd say is pretty necessary if you're trying to code anything more than
10 lines at a time, I had to install guest extensions. I would make full
screen mode an option that comes with the original package installed.
Also, my screen doesn't resize now when I change it for some reason, and
the cs50 appliance is very buggy as well- my programs close for no
reason, and sometimes the entire appliance quits for no reason.

* cs50 appliance window doesn't scale and can't change the resolution.
If i actually scale the window bigger to fit my monitor things look
bigger but i dont get more workspace which is annoying when coding. The
mouse capturing feature is annoying I wish I could just use it as a
normal window in my host OS. I wish i could copy paste between my
operating system and the guest OS

* gedit: it exits whenever I right-click the top bar within the
appliance. Also, when attempting to drag code around, gedit exits.
Furthermore, editing is made unnecessarily difficult by the inability to
minimize functions, and the lack of automatic formatting. It is possible
that plugins exist for this, however.

* I do not like the Virtual Machine (at all). I used Notepad++ and
Secure CRT for some courses and the design was so much better because I
like 'big' screens to work with (my current computer has a huge screen!)
Before the VM, I didn't have to deal with small windows inside which
there were yet smaller windows - distorted proportions look really bad!
I wish using the CTRL key was easier. For example, I use the right CTRL
to copy/paste instead of the left CTRL on the keyboard but if I use that
in the Virtual Machine in gedit, it simply mini/maximizes the window
instead of copy-pasting it - so I had to learn to use the left CTRL.
Also, I have no idea how I can access my own code using another computer
(say at work) without having to cumbersomely retrieve submitted backup
files. VM is not very intuitive. (R.I.P)Steve Jobs would probably not
approve of them either.

* The cs50 appliance. On my mac it runs very small and the ui is pretty
much worthless. I've linked to it from the mac os and try and do my work
in xcode and just rollover to compile and test. Why aren't we using an
IDE like Eclipse, where it will give me feedback as I write code and I
can compile and test right in the IDE? That's the primary change I would
make, better tools on a better OS.

* I have to say that gcc is not very user friendly, very Criptic in
terms on its interface and error reporting. I prefer visual studio which
helps users to determine where problems are in an intuitive way. the
errors and warnings are very clear in visual studio but somewhat
immature in the gcc textual approach. also when you write a long program
with lots of sub programs and libraries, gcc makes it very obtuse. I
have to say despite the fact that i like gdb - gcc leaves me cold. I
would fix it by having an integrated development environment that
allowed for the editing of text files with syntax checking on the text.
That is as you write code it would automatically warn you of simple
syntax problems such as where you should have included a semicolon or
where you declaration was incomplete or in error. Simple things that
would make development faster and easier and would save you having to
continually remake the file to find errors which is inefficient and
annoying. We are past the textual interface, we should be taking
advantage of GUI that provide meaningful metrics. Upon compilation the
more complex errors should be shown. Also on adjusting the errors
related and propagating errors should disappear from list. Hence
minimizing time wasted on pointless reiterating through code.

* Honestly, I don't really know anything that needs to be changed about
the appliance.


CS50 Cloud
~~~~~~~~~~

* I think the CS50 cloud is pretty poorly designed, because I found it
very difficult to change my password from the 8 character long
alphanumeric string to something that I could actually memorize and not
be annoyed typing every pset submittable. For the first few weeks I
actually had to keep it saved in a word doc just so I could make sure
not to forget it. While I understand the need for security given the
vastness of value of the network, I would be much happier if it was much
more obvious how to change ones password, or at the very least allow one
to set there original password, rather than be randomly assigned one.


CS50 Queue
~~~~~~~~~~

* On the CS50 help discussion board the threads would be easier to
search through if they were sorted by the program/function they pertain
to. This would something similar to the way the queue at office hours
requires the user to choose a function they need help with.

* I had a really hard time with the cs50 office hours queue tool this
week. The 'old' way, from CS76 was this "Write your name on the board,
wait for your name to be called, raise your hand, get help." The 'new'
way for cs50 (admittedly, something had to change since there were at
least an order or magnitude more students present at the ilab than had
ever shown up for cs76 hours...): This was my experience the other
night: 1. Try to get internet access at the ilab (repeat this a few
dozen times, give up, try with ipad instead) 2. Sign in to website
(itself not the easiest thing because of the multiple authentication
redirects) 3. Sign up for queue 4. Go back to work. (Here was my first
problem, it wasn't obvious that it was going to be important to keep the
browser open) 5. Wait for name to be called 6. Name not called for a
seemingly very long time, get ipad back out, notice that I'm not in
queue anymore 7. Repeat. Keep the thing turned on waiting for alert. I
think the real problems were steps 1 and 5 - since internet was required
to enter the queue, yet unavailable in the provided space, I was already
flustered and frustrated by the point I was able to sign up. And again,
since internet was required for notification of queue status, it was
very easy to miss the notification (I assume that's what happened) My
suggestions - have a prominent, obvious alternative way to enter the
queue, have a global notification system to announce queue status. The
butcher counter at my supermarket does it pretty well with little paper
numbers and a big guy who shouts them out...

* The CS50 Queue. How to fix the backup problem and unhelpful TFs.
Solution: Individuals sign up not on the Queue but for individual TFs
via the website. TF's have their own queue which they signup and off
according to their availability. As soon as an individual is done being
helped by a TF, they give the TF a score from 0-5. The average of all
these scores appear next to the TF's name on the website. This will
result in individuals being able to sign up for good TF's who will
actually help them. This will also result in good TF's having long
lines. However if a person is in a rush or if their problem is minor,
then they will sign up for a bad TF in which the wait is shorter. In
conclusion, this makes the queue less of an impersonal thing into a more
personal social thing where individuals make rate TF's they liked, and
other get to benefit from that knowledge. There should also be a option
of asking minor problems on the website (like syntax and such) and one
TF should be in charge of answering those things. Other students should
also be able to answer those questions.


CS50 Submit
~~~~~~~~~~~

* The submissions process seems to always have bugs in it...every week I
run into a different logistical problem. Apparently it wasn't this
complicated last year?


Crimson Careers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Crimson Career website is flawed. The back button does not work. If
you open a job link in a separate tab, when you want to go back to the
previous page in the original tab, it would go on to the link that you
most recently opened. I would ensure that the back button is not tied to
links that you open in a different tab.

* Crimson Careers This is probably one of the top worst webpages create
by Harvard. It's actually remarkable how bad it is. First off, you can
log in to anyone's account, simply with their last name and student id
(and apply for jobs, get their resumes, get their transcripts, etc.).
Aside from the ridiculous security flaw, searching for jobs and
internships of interest is way too complicated. There is a
fail/non-existant connection to email reminders. When switching between
pages or applying to different jobs, the webpage is so glitchy, that you
randomly end up on completely new pages that you never navigated to.
Additionally, navigating through cover letters and transcripts and other
documents is a complete mess. There is pretty much nothing good about
the Crimson Careers website, except that you are required to use it if
you want to get a job through Harvard.

* The SEO and Crimson Careers jobs database does not allow you to search
for a job by year or even by undergraduate vs. graduate status. This
makes it hard for students to find jobs appropriate to their age level;
it requires them to open each listing and then scroll down to the
requirement's section. I believe that this can be fixed by requiring
employers to check off all the years they are accepting applications for
and then adding an additional filter in the search engine.

* art.yale.edu. Enough said. In all seriousness I think Crimson Careers
is, quite frankly, one of the worst user interfaces I've ever used. If
you're not familiar with Crimson Careers, it's the OCS website that
allows you to apply to internships and jobs. Let me begin with the
security. The username is your email address and password is your
Harvard ID. To my knowledge, this cannot be changed. Crimson Careers is
place where you upload personal information, such as transcripts,
resumes, and cover letters. Harvard email addresses are available on
Harvard College Facebook and ID numbers are not that hard to find out.
If someone were to get hold of this information, not only could they
access personal information, but they could slander the victim's
professional identity by submitting bogus applications. Now let's dive
into the actual site. It brings you to a database of every internship
available. It is therefore necessary to click on the advanced search tab
and spend a few minutes (not seconds) on filter the internships to fit
your qualifications and interests. Once you've obtained this list, you
can browse through the internships and conveniently sort by important
fields, such as employer name, deadline, and date posted. Sometimes, it
takes a few clicks to get to the actual internship description, so
browsing can definitely be optimized better. However, once you click
into a job, if you hit back on your web browser, you will be sent to the
unfiltered list. This is incredibly annoying because it is time
consuming to find the "back" button in the webpage and use this every
time you want to look further into an internship opportunity. Sometimes,
the "back" button can't even be found. It takes a long time to
reconfigure your filters if you hit back on the browser/keyboard on
accident. And worst of all, if you have the list open and click "open in
new tab" for a few different listings, your pages will refresh such that
they're all the most recent listing you clicked on. In other words, you
can only open one internship at a time. My fixes: focus on dynamically
applying advanced filters to each page such that you can quickly glance
at the details of an internship and hit the back button with no problem.
My second fix is for the number of postings you can view in open tabs. I
would allow simultaneous viewing. And finally, I would allow users to
change their password to something more secure or at least append a
4-digit security code to the end of ID numbers (these digits will be
emailed to the user).

* Crimson Careers could use some serious interface improvement. In order
to see a list of jobs, you must use a search engine (customizable of
course). This is not bad, but once you go into a single job's details,
you cannot go back without searching the entire list again. In addition,
in order to apply for jobs, you must first save the jobs to a
"favorites" list, but you can only access that favorite's list if you go
into the job search engine (an additional unnecessary step). In essence,
there is no way to toggle between favorites, interviews, and documents
without having to through the search engine with each toggle. Very
inefficient.

* Crimson Careers is very buggy!! You're supposed to be able to "star"
your favorite job listings, but not everything that you star actually
shows up in your list of favorites. It is also not very intuitive. Also,
when you upload documents while applying for a job it will upload but
then you have to reselect them.

* Crimson Careers It is hard to search according to certain specific
criteria. You should be able to customize your search to suit your own
needs. The "back" button on the browser does not work for the site.
Instead, you have to use their back button which is located at the
bottom of the page (not very convenient). If you have the site open in
more than one tab, it seems to only recognize one of the pages at a time
and gets stuck on certain pages. This detail could be fixed by allowing
each page to run on its own and not recognize (perhaps stored in some
sort of memory) the other open window.

* One website whose user interface I dislike is Crimson Careers,
specifically the section where you search for jobs/internships. Like
most search engines, it has a space for you to input "keywords" for what
type of internship or job you are using for. However, instead of finding
searches that contain ALL of your keywords, the search function will
spit out anything that matches just ONE of your keywords. For example,
if I typed in "Goldman Sachs Investment Banking", I would get all
results that contained "Goldman", "Sachs", "investment", "banking", or
some combination of the four terms. In order to chase down specific
internships, I would have to actually type in less words. A simple way
to optimize this (actually, I don't know if it's so simple because I've
never done it) is to let the search function only search for jobs that
contain ALL of the keywords, or at least provide this option. Apart from
that, Crimson Careers in general is a rather confusing website that
makes applying to internships difficult. There are a lot of links, which
take you to more links. When you hit "back" to get back to a previous
page, I often find that it takes me back two or more pages. Also, it's
very frustrating when you apply through Crimson Careers only to be told
to go to the company's specific website and fill out yet another
application.

* Crimson Careers is very not user friendly and makes it very difficult
to find what you are looking for. It is not organized well at all, and
makes it extremely difficult to figure out how to make an appointment
with a counselor or find the calendar. I would fix it by creating
clearer links between the different parts of the website and changing
its organizational structure.

* The Crimson Careers website has a terrible search function. When you
are told to find a specific event from an employer, it is impossible to
search because you don't know which category to search in and what the
proper keywords are. If you aren't searching for something in
particular, you probably don't realize the problem as much, but
inevitably are missing a ton of potential opportunities. It is not
self-explanatory at all and not consistent about naming. To fix this,
there should be some sort of official rule or pattern that the people
who post on crimson careers must use, so students can find events/jobs
easier. Also, some employers have like 8 profiles - there should be a
check so that a company that already has a profile has to add
opportunities to that profile instead of constantly creating new stuff.

* The crimson careers website bothers me because it is very hard to
search for a specific job or to search for a specific employer through
the search system that they have in place. I typically end up scrolling
through 7 or 8 pages that are in alphabetical order so that I can
eventually find the employer or the job that I am looking for. Having a
friendly search feature would be useful because it is likely that people
approach the website on the day an application is due with the intention
of submitting their application to one specific job. I would fix the
problem by creating a search that works similarly to google's search and
to their advanced search options (if only I knew how!).

* I think that the interface for Crimson Careers could be improved.
Often, if people are looking through the list of careers posted, they
are browsing more than one option. Crimson Careers does not function
with opening up multiple postings in tabs. It remembers the last posting
it opened and every other opened tab will refresh to that last page if
you to try to go somewhere else. There is not necessarily a good way to
go back to the list of all the postings, and it usually requires lots of
pressing back and resending of forms. Perhaps it would be fixed if the
location of the user is not stored and updated so that everything
eventually goes back to that place.

* I think Crimson Careers website has some issues. For example, whenever
you click to open a certain job in a new window, no matter what you
click next in the previous window, you will be directed to whatever you
just opened. They also do not delete every job that has a passed
deadline, so when you want to check on the upcoming deadlines for posted
jobs, you may need to go several pages into the results in order to see
the jobs with applications due that night.

* The crimson careers website is very poorly designed in my opinion. Not
only is it slow, but the navigation is difficult from page to page. For
example to go back to a previous search, one has to click a specific
button on the website instead of being able to go back through the
browser. Furthermore, if one opens a new tab by navigating through this
website, it doesn't seem to forget that you went onto that page through
that tab and will subsequently for all other tabs on the crimson careers
navigate to the latest page you were on regardless what tab. Finally the
way of applying for jobs and fellowships is also slightly annoying
because one is prompted to upload documents on the application screen,
and after uploading instead of continuing with the application screen,
one is brought back to the job information page and is forced to go back
and navigate again. Essentially, I would change all of these small
annoying parts of the page to facilitate usability.


Crimson Cash
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The Crimson Cash website, aside from being generally slow, has some
unnecessary levels of security that slow down what might be a very quick
and easy process. In addition to logging in with your HUID and PIN, you
must also provide your CC ID #, a 16 digit number found on the back of
the ID card, which is generally difficult to memorize and can not be
saved by the web form for future use. Since these are uniquely
distributed with an HUID, why bother with them for this? Can't the
account just be linked to your ID and PIN, and skip the extra step,
which adds no extra security (not that security is necessary, as funds
can only be added on this website, and no real malicious harm can be
done to anyone by giving them money.

* I think the website for Crimson Cash could be much more streamlined
than it currently is. The way it stands now, the user has to fill in the
same information (HUID number, credit card, etc) every time he or she
wishes to reload their Crimson Cash. It seems reasonable to assume that
each individual student will only want to modify one Crimson Cash
account (so this information should be saved and pulled up with each CC
reload) and also to assume that they will use the same debit/credit card
for all of their transactions. Presumably the Crimson Cash website seeks
to make it easy for other people to add cash as well, but this could be
managed with a system more like the Harvard termbill website (with
"authorized payers") with separate login information. Since let's be
real, no random philanthropist is going to give me money to do laundry
and buy soda.

* I find the Crimson Cash web-site extremely unhelpful. It asks for
credit card information every time a users tries to add value even
though that user is already recognized in the system. I would make
membership password protected and then enable the user to access his
account with out filling out his/her life history every-time they want
to add 10$ they want to use for printing.

* I find it annoying and inefficient that Harvard makes a distinction
b/w Board Plus and Crimson Cash. First of all, you can't print with
Board Plus at Lamont :[ . But more importantly, separating the two
accounts cause students to unnecessarily leave small amount of change $
in both accounts after they're done using them. It would be more
efficient if Harvard just added $65 to the crimson cash account of all
students.

* The PaperCut system that Harvard uses for printing is incredibly not
user-friendly. First, something as common and necessary as printing at
Harvard should be an easy process that everyone can use, but this system
requires people to download the PaperCut application as well as the
"HUIT Printer Selector" application. These two should somehow be fused
into one application so students do not have to download unnecessary
applications. Even searching to log into your PaperCut account is nearly
impossible. In addition to this, many students like to use their Crimson
Cash to transfer money onto their PaperCut account, but the only options
on the PaperCut website are to add money by billing your term bill or
credit card. If you perform a Google search searching "Crimson Cash and
PaperCut," the FAS IT FAQs says that Crimson Cash can be transferred to
PaperCut on the website, but you can't (as far as I know) and instead
have to resort to going to the Science Center Basement to transfer money
onto your account.

* The crimson cash website is particularly annoying. In order to find
out how much money you have on your card, you have to find the tiny
sidebar labeled "Manage Your Account" and then enter your 8-digit HID,
at which point you have to enter your 16-digit ID on the back of your
card, and then wait while the website slowly loads the information.
There's no way I have my 16-digit ID memorized, so instead of a simpler
username and password system you have to dig around for your card. Not
to focus on aesthetics, but the website is ugly and not very attractive
to the eye. I would make it easier for people to see their balance by
having usernames and passwords, and I would make it easier to find the
"Manage Your Account" button, since that is pretty much the only reason
why you would ever need to go to the crimson cash website.

* Adding Crimson Cash is annoying. We should be able to add cash to our
cards simply by putting in our Harvard ID numbers, which are linked to
the 16 digit (tiny) number on the back of the card. Instead, I have to
type that stupid number every single time I need to "refill" for
laundry.

* The Crimson Cash website is poorly designed. Besides the overall eye
sore that it is with its various advertisements and rarely-used
clickable links, the process of checking or adding to your account value
is more difficult than it should be. First, you have to type in your
HUID username and password. This would be fine if this immediately took
you to your account, but instead it sends you to a half-baked page that
provides only the first few digits of your crimson card number and then
prompts you for the remaining nine. If you want to add value, you have
to go through the whole process of entering credit card and home address
information. This would be understandable if the difficulty was to
ensure security, but as other websites can securely store credit card
and address information, I don't understand why Crimson Cash cannot do
so as well.

* It seems that just to add money to crimson cash, it requires a lot of
steps and 2 log ins. For security reasons with money I can see why they
want to be careful with the accounts but adding value should be a simple
step just like buying something online.


Harvard.edu
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Harvard's main website is has a terrible interface because the main
information people are looking for (admissions info, sports etc.). Thus,
the website does not optimize for the common case. I would fix it by
taking a survey of the things people find most important for a college
website and making those easiest to see for the viewer.

* The gazette calendar, is cumbersome and doesn't integrate well with
the gcal that I use. To fix that have the gazette calendar break apart
into different categories and these would then be able to be used in my
gcal (after I subscribe).

* The Harvard website interface is the most annoying thing. I don't know
how I would fix it, but nothing is where you'd expect, and the best way
to find anything is to Google it.


HBS Learning Hub
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Absolutely the first thing that came to mind was the HBS Learning Hub.
There's really nothing nice to say about it. It has so many different
ways to arrive at the same info. I think this is poor design because it
should be obvious how to find the info you need from just one way
instead of cluttering the site with many routes and navigation bars
(speaking of which, it has more than 3 navigation bars). Despite all the
different routes, you still get lost. I have to go through several steps
to find the info I need, regardless of which of the many routes above
that I take. Last year, the Learning Hub was much more simple. It simply
displayed the syllabus on one page, and that was the heart of it. Though
it looked more like Craigstlist, it was pretty easy to find the info you
need. I think the New Learning Hub was trying to do too much and gave
every part / user case too much attention versus focusing on what really
matters to students (which is figuring out our assignments for the next
day; that's 90% of the reason that we use learning hub; focus should be
on that).

* Recently, the MBA program decided to launch a new tool called Learning
Hub. This is where students can find their schedule, course contents,
syllabus, and assignment questions. While I believe this tool is very
feature rich, I think that there is a big problem when it comes to
actually finding your assignment questions. The key problem is that
there is a sidebar on the welcome screen, that features your upcoming
classes. For example, if we are doing a case on Wal-Mart tomorrow, there
would be a hyperlink titled "Wal-Mart" for Friday's view. Most students,
including myself, click that link to see the assignment questions.
However, we are taken to a calendar view which shows the class schedule
block. I do not think that most users click the link to see the
calendar, but rather are more interested in the class content for the
day. I would recommend changing the link to take you to the course
content and assignment questions page.

* HBS has a "Learning Hub" website that is uses, among other things, to
let professors share class notes, assignments, and class calendars
online with students. In addition to the standard computer of the
website, HBS developed a "mobile" edition of the website that can be
accessed via smartphones. This is "mobile edition" sounds fantastic in
theory, but unfortunately the mobile website doesn't let students check
their assignments/homework for the following day! We can only see our
class schedule for the following day, but this is not very useful unless
we can drill deeper into the information and see what our assignments
for those upcoming classes are. A simple solution: add just one layer of
information to the mobile learning hub that allows users to view the
assignments/study questions for each class in addition to the class
schedule.

* This year HBS released the "Learning Hub" - a website to manage our
courses. It's amazing how bad the interface is, and more notably, how
much worse it is compared to what we had last year. I believe its intent
is to present things as an agenda or calendar, but by doing so it
obscures the information that is important, and makes it nearly
impossible to get what you want quickly or easily. Starting at the home
page: http://files.distinc.tt/B9E4 Announcements are much less important
to me than what courses I have tomorrow and the corresponding
assignments. I would move announcements to the side bar and put an
overview of the upcoming day in the main section. On the left, I see
that I have "Inge" today, but I'm not told what that is. I know that I
have Entrepreneurial Finance at 11:40 so I assume that "Inge" is the
case for that class. Instead, the link should say ENT FIN: Inge. I would
expect that clicking on that link would take me to the assignment
details, but instead I end up on a calendar
(http://files.distinc.tt/B8yM). Various problems with this view as well,
especially the fact that I'm always concerned that I may have
accidentally un-checked one of the calendars on the left, therefore
removing any data or reminders for that course. I'll click on Inge
again, and I just get a popup (http://files.distinc.tt/B9Av), still
don't know anything about the assignment. Clicking "more" finally gets
me somewhere (http://files.distinc.tt/BAJb), but from here I can't
navigate back. I also can't get to the course's main page if I wanted to
view lecture notes or any other references. Finally, clicking on the
case takes me to a hierarchical view of every document uploaded by the
course. (http://files.distinc.tt/B8ls). It's not indexed to the current
document I'm on, and cases are not easily distinguished from course
documents. Loading this view collapsed would help a lot, as would
limiting it to cases.

* The new learning hub website at HBS lists upcoming classes and the
case materials for each. However, each of these is not listed in any
discernible order (by date would make most sense but they are not even
alphabetical). Also whereas in the old system tomorrows classes are
listed in upcoming events immediately after todays class end, this now
does not update until the beginning of the next day.


HCS
~~~

* I think the interface to create, join, change preferences, and
unsubscribe from Harvard's student mailing lists is poorly designed. It
is especially frustrating to have to find your randomly generated
password in order to change any of your preferences or unsubscribe. I
also think it could be nice to have a directory of all public mailing
lists to see which ones you could subscribe too instead of just finding
out about mailing lists randomly. For both student mailing lists as well
as class mailing lists, it would also be convenient if the mailing lists
and your gmail account could sync in some way to automatically
filter/assign labels to mailing lists instead of having to manually code
the filters each time you join a mailing list.

* The managing harvard mailing list subscriptions is not exactly
user-friendly. For one, we can sign up to different mailing lists with
different passwords, which makes unsubscribing or managing each
individual subscription complicated. Besides, to unsubscribe, we have to
click on the small little link on the emails sent to each mailing list
and unsubscribe from each mailing list individually. This is extremely
painstaking, especially if we had inadvertently signed up for too many
mailing lists during activities fair. I am not sure if there is a place
we can have an overview of all of our mailing list subscriptions and
manage them as a whole. Even if there is, not many people will know
about it. All our subscriptions should just fall under ONE account with
the same password. There should be a website (probably the one
maintained by HCS) where we can just log into the system to get an
overview of all subscriptions and manage them all at once. At the bottom
of the email, instead of giving us the link to manage our subscription
to a particular list, it should provide the link to login and manage all
our subscriptions.


HOLLIS
~~~~~~

* The new Hollis library website for Harvard doesn't allow boolean
operators in searches, and doesn't allow phrasal searching, which makes
it really difficult to get relevant results for some terms. Though the
website searches a wide variety of sources, including the VIA image
search as well as all the libraries and archival collections (that have
been digitized), the sheer wealth of resources can actually make it more
difficult to find what you need. For example, I'm helping out on a
research project about chili peppers. When I search chili or chilli I
get results for the soup, when I search pepper I get results for black
pepper, and if I search chile I get results for the country. Since I
can't search for "chili pepper", I get results for everything that
includes chili and everything that includes pepper, much of which isn't
relevant to me. I would modify the system such that a user could insert
the same NOT, OR, AND operators that are common in many search engines
to exclude certain terms, I would allow phrasal searching using
quotation marks, and I would also allow a Lexis-Nexis type search
(implemented in some of the other library tools at Harvard) that allows
a * operator to fill in the blanks when dealing with affixes, suffixes
and prefixes (i.e. win* searches winner, wins, etc.). I would also allow
a search option that looks for term X within N words of term Y, so that
you don't have to do exact phrasal searching, but can still look for
relevant results.

* I find that the Harvard Library System doesn't have a very friendly
website. The whole Hollis catalogue gives you many search options, but a
student doesn't usually know what each of the terms mean. A way to give
a brief explanation for each search-bar and term would already be a big
improvement in the website's design.

* The library resources system could be done in a slightly more
efficient manner. In order to find a desired online journal through
"lib.harvard.edu", it requires numerous steps and a very tedious
procedure. It would be great if these journals were stored in a more
universal pool for easier access to students. The search mechanisms are
particularly complicated and each use a different standard for how they
find key words. A universal system which spans the Harvard directory for
all journals would be ideal.

* HOLLIS and HOLLIS classic are poorly designed because they both
essentially do the same thing, but use space on different sites. The
only difference between HOLLIS classic and HOLLIS is its searching
capability; HOLLIS classic is more precise. HOLLIS has a design error in
that its search capabilities are less precise. I would update the search
engine of HOLLIS so that it is as precise as HOLLIS classic and then get
rid of HOLLIS classic.

* hollis library directory

* Hollis. If you press the back button in your browser, instead of the
back button they draw for you on the webpage, then you leave Hollis and
lose your search results. You are sent back to whatever page you were on
before you entered Hollis. I would allow the user to press the browser's
back button (which I accidentally do all the time), in order to return
to search results.

* I feel that the Hollis Library website (owned by Harvard University)
is poorly designed. There appears to be multiple initial landing pages,
and so it is not easy to know where to start your search for books.
Moreover, you have to go to a bunch of different places on the site
depending on what you are looking for (journals, books, etc). It would
enhance one's experience on the site if you could do a general search
(assuming it would effectively find what you are looking for!). The
search algorithm itself seems pretty nit-picky, so not being super
precise makes its very difficult to find what you want. I would
establish a single landing page with a single search bar. Just the the
HarvardCourses site, it should be easy to filter results right from that
page.

* I presently work at the library as a cataloger, and the cataloging
program we use is called Aleph. Aleph has various different modules
[acquisitions, cataloging, etc.] that link librarians directly to HOLLIS
and the library collections themselves. Aleph is a great tool for the
library, but there are a few aspects about it that certainly need to be
addressed: 1) Aleph resists automation because it often runs slowly and
tends to lag. I design macros to automate processes that would otherwise
slow down our workflow, and Aleph does not always respond to automation
as easily as a program like Microsoft Office Suite, or Firefox (one of
our macros opens a browser to perform a search). At times Aleph crashes
when you attempt to open a new bibliographic record (although it was
literally updated just yesterday so that bug may have been fixed). Aleph
should use memory in a more efficient way (I am not sure how the program
was made so I cannot comment much on how it's working). 2) Aesthetics
aside, the interface is not intuitive at all. There are TONS of keyboard
shortcuts in Aleph which is great considering that Macro Express can
make full use of these shortcuts to simplify tasks, but the shortcuts
are totally random at times and are not intuitive. I would create a
system to address keyboard shortcuts in a more user-friendly way. 3)
Finally, in the cataloging module I would change the layout of the
record windows because they display records awkwardly at best. If you
have two records open and would like to open a third, you lose one of
the records and getting back to it is clunky (one must either open the
record again which will overlap all the records below it, or close the
newly opened record). There needs to be at the very least a toggle to
switch between overlapped records. // end rant

* The Harvard Library System's websites could use some work. I have a
hard time finding journal articles using its system, so I typically use
Pubmed. However, when I need to find articles from humanities or social
science journals, I know that the Harvard Library System's website has a
search system, but I have a hard time figuring out which of the numerous
search options available I should use. It's not self-explanatory and
somewhat illogical at places. I would fix it by having one huge search
system that would allow me to search for all types of articles based on
criteria like publication date, topic, author, etc. and be able to
access all articles that fit a certain criteria within 4-5 steps.

* I have found that the printing machine interface in the Harvard
libraries is poorly designed. When printing in the library, you're
document is sent to this machine where you have to find it on the
touchscreen in order to pay for it. The names of the file are not clear,
especially when these files are from the web. It is further complicated
when many people print to these printers. More than once, I have
accidentally printed (and payed for) a document that was not mine
because of this poorly designed interface. One way it could be improved
would be if you could name the files as you send them to the printer.

* The HOLLIS system for Harvard libraries has two completely different
interfaces, HOLLIS and HOLLIS Classic. As far as I know, you can only
request media via HOLLIS Classic, but the layout for HOLLIS is more
easily browsed. This leads to a certain amount of confusion, especially
as HOLLIS Classic logs itself out of your account after five minutes of
inactivity, including using the more user-friendly search engine and
display of HOLLIS. If the library system were to consolidate the two
versions of HOLLIS, or at least make HOLLIS usable to request media, it
would be a far less frustrating experience.

* Parts of the Hollis website, especially the pages for "e-research",
have always bothered me. I remember having do dedicate the better part
of an hour during an expos class last year, learning just to navigate
through the different search engines and options to find the one that
was relevant and reliable for our expos class. I think the main flaw
lies in the organization of the links. All of the links (and the pages
they link to) in Hollis have very similar and generic sounding names. I
constantly find myself following links to pages I've already tried to
navigate away from because they have some generically usefull sounding
link like find e-something or search e-something. To get to the
important areas for my expos class, you have to navigate through hollis
to the e-research page, then find the e-research link on said page. Then
you have to pull down a drop down menu and know to click the bottom go
button and not to enter anything in the big appealing search box and
click that go button. If it were up to me, I'd redo the reorganization
from the ground up. I'd at least add some sort of key or master mapping.

* The Hollis library website is poorly designed, I feel, in that it
seems to consider any movement throughout the website still within the
same page...as in clicking the back button takes you all the way back
out to the home page, no matter how many times the screen has changed
since you arrived. I would just make it so that clicking the back button
actually takes you back one page.

* Harvard's library website(s). first off, if there is an "older"
version of the "hollis", then just get rid of - it's confusing figure
out which version I'm using sometimes. further more, this website is
redirect central - always pushing the user out to different websites,
which contain other articles - couldn't they just iframe it, so that my
session can be contained within hollis itself instead of me having to
either open a new tab or go back? It's difficult to keep track of where
I'm at. As I said, I would keep all the redirect webpages contained
within the hollis website itself.

* In the new version of the Hollis Online Library Catalog, there are
multiple selections for the same book that are held in different subsets
of libraries. You should be able to click on a book and see all versions
and editions in one place.

* The harvard library system is relative buggy as I can find no
information about the book I have already returned. I really want to
check what I have borrowed and maybe review it some days later. The
solution is easy, just add a new item to store such information.

* The Harvard Library website is improving slightly, but still not
nearly as user friendly as it could be compared to other university
library websites I've used. It is difficult to find what I want to find
(ie the proper journal search tools) without clicking through many
links. I would reorganize how the links are titled, how they are
displayed, and add shortcuts to popular research journal search tools.


HUDS
~~~~

* The Annenberg system for depositing dirty dishes is incredibly far
from optimal. The physical user interface is incredibly simple, but a
substantial amount of time could be saved if instead more was expected
of users. Certainly the common case is that many individuals will be
using the system at one and therefore many individuals should be able to
be serviced at once instead of fewer people doing more work behind the
scenes. I better methodology for this would be to set up s trash
separating area, whereby students can walk by different bins and sort
their own trash and then stack plates etc. at the end in some collection
apparatus. thus by setting up two lines of bins and disk carts we can
allow four students to be processed at one time. Far more efficient.

* It's a simple example, but the HUDS menu page is certainly not
optimized for the common case. I would venture a guess that almost every
student who visits the This Week's Menu page of the HUDS website is
interested in what is being served for dinner. Accordingly, one might
expect the day's entrees at the top, accompanied by the soups, and any
different special items. Below that could be the fixture foods, like the
never-changing contents of the salad and sandwich bars, along with the
cereals, etc. in case someone was interested in nutritional information
and the like. However, the menu page instead lists every single food
item, sorted into categories. Thus, though the soups are at the top, the
day's unique entrees are buried in the middle, below the soup and salad
bars whose contents nearly never change, but above the also unchanging
grill menu and brown rice station. It's a small optimization, but
putting all of the items unique to the day and meal together at the top
is probably worth it, as anyone who has eaten at the dining hall a
couple of times knows what to expect on the menu except for the items
changing day-to-day and meal-to-meal.

* The HUDS bag meal ordering website is, in my opinion, poorly designed.
When presented with the option to order breakfast, lunch or dinner, say
we select breakfast because we want a bagged breakfast from the dining
hall tomorrow. So, we fill out the information for the breakfast we wish
to order, and on the confirmation page, it states something like this:
"if you want to place another order, please click the 'place another
order' button to the right. However, upon clicking this button, it
assumes you meant you wanted to order another BREAKFAST for some other
day in the next week. It does NOT give the option to order lunch or
dinner for that same day (or lunch and dinner for any day of the current
week, for that matter) when you click the place order button. Obviously,
the fix here is to have the place order button allow you to select order
another breakfast, lunch, or dinner, THEN ask what day you'd like it
for. Just a suggestion to fix something that has been bothering me about
the HUDS site.

* The HUDS user interface is poorly designed, mostly because of the
information architecture. For example, in order to find the hours that a
dining hall operates, you have to sift through many different pages to
get to it. To fix it, I would analyze what information students want
presented to them immediately on the page, and I would arrange the links
on the page so that the most demanded links are on the home page at an
easy to find location.

* Dining.harvard.edu. The only reason people pretty much ever go there
is to check the menu or order a bag lunch, both of which are about 3-4
clicks away. So it definitely does not optimize for the common case. I
would fix it by putting a bag lunch icon/link right on the home page,
even if at the bottom. Also the menu font
(graduates/undergraduates/families, etc) is very small.

* One simple design flaw is the way students need to swipe into dining
halls. This requires removing one's HUID from wherever it is stored,
handing it to the nice person at the desk, waiting for the person to
swipe the card, taking the card back, and putting it away. If the first
swipe doesn't work - which happens often - then an extra several seconds
may be needed for the swipe to go through. In campus libraries, swipes
have been largely substituted with taps. What's to stop a similar tap
system from speeding up entry to dining hall serveries?

* I find the campus wide internet service to be lacking at times. With
the ever increasing number of personal computers, as well as the extent
these machines are being put to use, it seems to me that the current
internet set-up is unable to keep up with the demand. I understand that
motions have been made to increase bandwidth in dining halls, however I
think the movement must extend into dorms as well. Ever so often I am
kicked off the internet in my dorm and must attempt to reconnect several
times to the internet hoping to reclaim my spot in the bandwidth.
Increasing bandwidth is necessary in order to maintain the increasing
computer usage here on campus.

* The HUDS website is difficult to navigate through. For example, to
find dining hall hours and holiday closures, it seems logical that you
would first click Undergraduates to find this information. However, it
is not on this page or the home page. I always end up randomly clicking
a bunch of pages before I see "residential dining" in tiny font at the
bottom of the screen. Very not-intuitive. Also, from the home page, when
I click on "Hot Entrees" to see what is on the menu, the page that comes
up first shows information on the soup, salad bar and sandwich bar
before showing the entrees. It's cumbersome to scroll through all this
to find the entrees, which was the original link I had clicked on. I
would fix this by organizing the links on the page better. The links and
where they are placed need to be much more logical and easier to
navigate through. I would put "dining hall hours and locations" on the
Undergraduate or home page. I would also link the menu display with the
link that the user actually clicks.

* The HUDS website: Most of the information on there is useful and
interesting. I am glad that they make the nutrition reports accessible
to students and parents. However, in terms of web design, the
organization is not very logical. For example, I would put dining hall
opening hours (and location, which parents would find helpful!) on the
home page (or at least on the undergraduate page for undergraduates).
There are also links that are available on every tap (undergrad,
graduate, faculty, etc...), which just takes up space and is not as
useful. I would put those in the home page and have only material useful
for the specific groups on their pages. (I.e. have stuff only relevant
to undergrads on the undergrad page, etc...)

* HUDS Dining Bagged Meals: In addition to the Annenburg food not being
up to par, their website is also quite subpar... :P After you go to the
HUDS Dining menu, you have to click on "Undergraduate"... Then "Have it
your Way Bagged Meal"... Then you have to click on "Log-In" and then you
"Log-In" to the SAME page that was previously present, only with your
personal information.... Then you click on the "Meal" that you want to
order... Then you have to click on your meal options (which are not
explained anywhere on the site, nor do they specify which ones are or
are not vegetarian / vegan)... Then you have to place the order. Yes, it
is self-explanatory, but it is not efficient.. Immediately after
clicking on the Bagged meal option, you should automatically go straight
to the log-in page... The meals are not classified which is
ESSENTIAL!!!!!!!!!!!

* I wish there was a better way for students to pick up lunch. It should
be more widely advertised and there should be a more efficient website.
Many times when I tried to order lunch during the night before I was not
able to for some reason. In addition there are 3 options for breakfast,
lunch, and dinner, but you can order any of them at anytime. I do not
know if they actually do this, but it seems unefficient for the cooks.
The pick up lunch is a great option for students who can't eat lunch,
but it should be better designed.

* The website for ordering a bagged meal at Harvard has a very poorly
designed interface. The interface makes sense but it just takes too long
to order a meal. Also it is nearly impossible to find the website unless
you have it bookmarked. Of greatest annoyance, I have not yet found a
way to order two bagged meals (for lunch and dinner or two different
days) without having to log out of the website and then log back in. I
think the website should be redesigned to have a memorable name (i.e.
meals.harvard.edu) and should have faster, more user friendly options
for picking meals. These improvements would include the option to order
the same bagged meal for multiple days of the week at the same time, and
might also include a "meals-you-frequently order" option for future
log-ins.

* Annenburg's human throughput from entry to getting food to putting
away trays is subpar. First of all, many students are left outside while
the person at the front gets his card swiped and then steps away for the
next person. This could be made faster by letting students swipe their
own cards, or perhaps use a card scanner for instant touch-and-go.
Secondly, people don't get every item in the food line, and are limited
to one-at-a-time grabbing; I'd suggest the food offerings be placed in
an island such that at least two lines could form around it. Lastly,
people stand around at the tray put-away line when times are busy; we
could just do some of the work of the dining hall staff beforehand (i.e.
brush off food, stack trays, stack plates, etc.).

* I find the Harvard University Dining Services (www.dining.harvard.edu)
website quite difficult to navigate. As an undergraduate, I mainly use
HUDS to check the daily menu, check dining hall hours, and order a bag
lunch. While thankfully the daily menu is on the homepage, ordering a
bag lunch requires you to somehow find the "undergraduate" link in tiny
font at the top of the page and get there, and I don't even know how to
check dining hall hours. They really need to 1) make the important
things easily accessible/visible to users and 2) stop cluttering the
page with a thousand images and icons. I would make the site easier to
use by changing the menu at the top. Instead of bucketing by
"undergraduate," "graduate," "faculty," etc., I would make the titles
things like "Menu", "Locations/Hours," "Other", etc. I think HUDS should
figure out what things people use their site for most often, and then
make those things most obvious and easy to access.

* The HUDS menu is not good because it doe not display the important
information up top. For instance, the entrees should be first. Things
that they offer every day are not really important for them to have
towards the top at all. It would be great to reorganize the text or even
upload a picture display of the food. It should also have a calendar.
Right now, you can only display one food at a time. It would be more
informative if for a whole week they displayed the main entrees fore
each meal.

* All I can think of at the moment is the card-swiping things at the
dining halls. They don't make it very clear which is the correct way to
swipe the card -- I think there might be a picture, but it could be
interpreted a couple of ways -- and it communicates that the swipe was
unsuccessful just by beeping in a different tone than when it was
successful, which is ambiguous. Also, the "remaining meals" number that
flashes up makes me curious. Is that remaining meals in the week, day or
dining period? I remember seeing high-ish numbers, like nine, so it
isn't really clear. Not implying that we should idiot-proof everything,
but I guess this could be improved.

* I think the interface of Harvard's menu is poorly designed, since you
have to go through many steps just to find today's lunch menu. There is
also no searchable feature to find the next time the dining hall is
serving a certain dish or a way to include the nutritional information
for all the items at once. Overall, it is just a very poorly designed
website that could use some serious renovation.


HUIT
~~~~

* I think the papercut login system is very poorly designed. If I go to
a computer lab, and want to print something out, I need to login three
times. I have to login first to papercut, then login again when I want
to print something out. When I press the print button, it also will
prompt me for a login if it has been more than five minutes since the
original login. This is very inefficient, and I can't possibly see the
justification for asking for a username and password three times just to
print something out. To fix it, I would only require one login per
session.

* The FAS-it website is extremely hard to navigate. The instruction for
installing a house or dorm printer to your computer is contained within
articles that exist in the website, but are not clearly laid out in a
menu or directory. To find the article that describes how to install a
house printer onto a PC, you have to click "guide to services", then
"labs and printing", then "print", and then find the related article
that says "print from my PC". This took me hours to figure out as a
freshman. Then the process to sign onto harvard's network to sense the
printer is annoying as well. I just bought my own printer and try to
avoid printing from harvard printers now.

* I find the papercut software for printing pages a bit repetitive. In
most of the computers that I use, papercut prompts for my username and
password every time I want to print, regardless of whether I had already
logged in some few moments before.

* I feel like the system for uploading lecture videos is seriously
flawed, especially when it comes to uploading videos on Friday. While I
typically don't have the need for this system, there was a day when I
overslept on a Friday and did not have access to the lecture video for
an entire weekend and Monday. This was beyond irritating, and I feel
that my learning seriously slowed because of this. I wish there were a
more efficient way to upload these videos. It can't honestly be that
difficult, but I'm not sure what the process is and so I don't exactly
know how I would fix it. All I know is that videos are ready for upload
right after they are taped, but for some reason uploading to the course
website takes FOREVER.


iSites
~~~~~~

* I think isites is poorly designed. The interface hides things you need
and is hard to navigate. You probably realize this since you don't use
it for this course.

* One webpage that is poorly designed is the Math21a isites
(http://isites.harvard.edu/icb/icb.do?keyword=k80828) because there is
essentially a completely separate website embedded in a frame inside
isites. It makes it difficult to read, and is unnecessary when the
actual website (www.courses.fas.harvard.edu/~math21a) is perfectly
accessible.

* I think the Harvard Registrar Course of Instruction website is very
badly designed:
http://www.registrar.fas.harvard.edu/fasro/courses.jsp?cat=ugrad&subcat=courses
The courses are poorly classified as they are only grouped into
subjects. There is no option to view courses based on which semester
they are offered, their schedule, their rating... The website also lacks
a search engine. Moreover, when clicked on a course, the website
immediately redirects only to the current isites webpage of the course,
which is sometimes inaccessible or empty. There is no link to the course
web locator, so we cannot look for the course's past syllabus/reading
lists/exams... I would fix this by providing a search engine for the
website, with different options to filter search results. I will also
provide links to the courses' previous webpages so that students can
find more information about them.

* The format of the Harvard isites websites on mobile devices (at least,
on my iPhone) is not very user-friendly. It is not particularly
difficult to figure out--but in addition to be aesthetically
displeasing, the workflow of the interface is extremely inefficient. In
order to access any of my psets or syllabi from my classes, I have to do
a lot of clicking on the menu interface. The main screen for some reason
does not always display all the links that you can go to, so you have to
click down on a scroll down menu and navigate through several pages
(some of which are just blank, aside from a link--why not go directly to
the page that is in the link, rather than just displaying the link on a
white page?). I have seen websites much better optimized for iphone use,
and I think that the isites website could definitely be improved in this
respect (or even turned into an app!).

* As an extension school student, I've noticed that many of my courses
websites (particularly the iSites) just sort of blurt out all the
information and links at once, instead of sorting them in a readable
fashion by topic or week. I think I should be able to sort by topic, or
by week, or by topic and week. Many of these sites require extensive
poking around just to make sure that you've seen all the information
that was presented in a given week or on a given topic, and god forbid
you aren't signed in with your HUID or whatever, because then you see a
totally different set of information. The design of the workflow isn't
that good, and the graphic design doesn't help much either. Also I tried
using a Kindle the other day and couldn't figure out basic use of it
after the first 5 minutes. As opposed to my first Mac and/or iPhone,
both of which took about 2 minutes to achieve basic functionality.

* The Harvard iSites is not an effective webpage because it is rather
decentralized. It's not easy to navigate (registration and courses are
often on different pages) and the calendar is not used by any students
that I know. Also, the Pre-term Planning and Study Card tools often
double the courses I am taking in the header, sometimes directing me to
past course websites which are very unhelpful. A cleaner interface with
a more centralized, less buggy system would be best. Also, the calendar
should be more easily linked to more widely used Gcal or Ical
applications.

* The iSites are not the best the way there are lots folders and
confusing file locations. the people who edit the site should spend more
time making it easy to use and make sure things are in logical places.

* Harvard's iSites often require a suboptimal level of steps for users
to reach desired information. All files are grouped according to a rigid
hierarchy which is uniform across iSites. Unfortunately, this heirarchy
refuses to account for relative frequency of different files. For
example, on the LS1a iSite, ~99% of visits will be to download the
week's pset, lecture notes, or lab. However, to get to these files the
user must ignore the header image, read through the announcements to
find where files are posted (the announcements do not contain links to
the files,) search through the sidebar for the subcategory containing
the desired file, go to that page, and then find the said file in a list
of all the year's psets, lecture notes, labs, etc. A more ideal solution
could group all documents released in the past week in a prominent
location on the front page. This way, "the 99%" will simply need to
click 3 times to download the week's pset, notes, and lab, instead of
searching for each in their own directory tree.

* The user interface for the Q guide is awful. It has no search
function, you can't sort by teacher or rating (or time), and the only
way to find any class is to go through its department (which you have to
know ahead of time to find it). Also, none of the information is
available on the main page with lists of classes - you have to go all
the way in, following several links to find teacher ratings and reviews,
to find much of the information, and the page completely reloads to look
at any information from past years. It also doesn't tell you
prerequisites or even a basic sense of what level class it is, which is
essential to interpreting the q score.

* On my Math 1b course isite is very inefficient when I want to start my
homework. The website it takes way to many steps (9 to be exact) for me
to check what the homework is, then find the problem set pdf as well as
the pdf for the extra. Homework assignement description is on one page,
which is hard to find in itself, the problem set is on another page,
several steps away, while extra weekly problems (review added to each
problem set) are on a different page. Confusing and time consuming.

* Crimson Cash's website is poorly designed. By far and away the most
common reason for going to cash.harvard.edu (which I normally get to by
googling "crimson cash" and clicking on the first result) is to add
value to your card. But you can't do it on cash.harvard.edu's frontpage.
You need instead to FIND and click a relatively little side bar button
that says "add cash now". Once that button is clicked, the add value
page is relatively straightforward: it presents a standard set of input
fields for credit card info, etc with one exception: It requires
entering one's crimson cash number. It describes with text where to find
it, and it prepopulates the field with the first 8 digits (common to
many users, but not all). This isn't as clear as it could be. (The
prepopulation is actually mostly a positive, but the text description is
confusing) To fix this, I would: 1) Give over 50% of the real estate on
the front page (cash.harvard.edu) to the add value information fields
that are for now present on cash.harvard.edu/payment.php. (If you REALLY
wanted to take the lazy route and not redesign the web page, you could
just put the stuff in the middle white column which is woefully
underused. If you need the agreement to the policy statement, you could
always put that after the info is entered, as part of the confirmation
payment process/button) (Alternatively, thought this is less ideal, you
should have a HUGE "ADD CASH TO YOU CARD" button on the front page) 2)
Rather than having confusing text explaining where the CC number is and
why the field is partially (but only partially) prepopulated, I'd have a
screenshot of the back of a Harvard ID / Crimson Cash card with arrows
highlighting where the number is and what numbers a user needs to enter.
Would be much clearer. (Of course, it would be even more convenient, if
the page remembered your CC number w/ cookies or other means so that you
didn't need to re-enter it the next time you visited the page)

* One specific website I don't like is my SW25 courses' isites page. It
is not as logically designed as I would like (granted its not thaaaat
bad but it just makes for seconds of inconvenience that later delay my
working on my cs50 pset of course!). The first time I had to find this
page, I had to refer to the instructions sent in an email and / or ask
friends, making it not self-explanatory. Simply, the placement of the
"Course Announcements" is in a strange order, as it is not chronological
and it is difficult to find pertinent announcements. It would be nice if
there were more organization for the uploaded documents as well. Another
thing is the links are not layered logically, in my opinion. For
example, in order to get to the midterm study guide, one has to (oops I
forgot the logic already!) go through three clicks, one of which leads
to an empty page. Elimination of this inefficiency would be nice, as it
takes "eight steps just to get on a train". I would fix this logic and
make it more efficient and practical, like being more explicit as to
where the "Assignment" tab falls under.


Laundry
~~~~~~~

* The service that texts you when your laundry is done neither was easy
to figure out nor worked for me in a useful manner when I used it. The
text I received alerted me more than half an hour after my laundry was
done, which wasn't helpful. The procedure for registering the washing
machine or dryer you're using is explained via a poster that gives a
generic example that has been marked up with symbols that aren't
explained. Ultimately you need to figure out a sequence of random
numbers by combining multiple pieces. This could be simplified by having
clear names as codes, such as Harvard Hurlbut A4 (where A4 is the number
of the individual machine). Along with this, naturally, the time lag
could be improved. Another nice improvement would be to include a
locking function such that while the machine was running and for 90
seconds after it finished, only someone who had entered a code at the
beginning could unlock it. This would require physical installation of
both the locking device and the keypad, so perhaps wouldn't be worth it
in the end. If it were implemented, it would be best done such that the
choice to enter a locking code would be optional, since many if not most
people probably wouldn't want to bother.

* The laundry system at Harvard is an example an inefficient system. To
view when the laundry is done, one has to: 1. Put clothes in the washing
machine 2. Pay using the device on the wall 3. Set up laundry view and
send them a text 4. Keep checking when the laundry is done This friction
between the two devices used can be optimized to only one. I would fix
the system by having the device on the wall track the progress of the
laundry rather than texting a complete new system.


my.harvard
~~~~~~~~~~

* Links to course pages on my harvard. The links are a two step process
with a popup between the steps.It should just directly link.

* The standard Harvard course search website is incredibly inefficient.
You can't list classes by department or professor, as you can in the
cs50 version, which is certainly very efficient.

* I find the harvard course websites a little inefficient sometimes
especially when readings and handout out are hidden in multiple levels
of folders. A search function would be much more user friendly and would
save me some time every day when trying to print out handouts.

* How Harvard does courses. If you do are not enrolled in a class and
therefore have the classes on a top bar under your main bars. You have
to search for a class, wait to see if it comes up, and sometimes it does
not, then if you want the course website you have to click on a link
that pops up a small summary, plus Q report, then you have to click
course website and it will open in a new link. I would lose the middle
pop up screen, and create another link to go straight to the course
website. I understand that you guys have tried to remedy this, but I
still think that it's worth saying again.

* The course homepage on my.harvard.edu is poorly designed: it takes too
many clicks to get to the course website you're interested in. Also,
there needs to be ONE centralized website that has all the events going
on in Harvard. I know there are a lot of websites out there that do
this, but I don't know if they are missing some events, or if one
website is different from another purely in terms of content.

* The whole my.harvard.edu portal seems to be a bit clunky, with not
enough room for personalization and many unused options. The courses tab
is probably the most widely used; however, the search for courses box
works much less well than courses.cs50.net. Perhaps CS50 can help give
my.harvard.edu a makeover?

* I wish the "courses" tab on my.harvard.edu was designed better. The
courses search bar is only useful if you already know at least part of a
course's name. If I want to view all the courses that satisfy the
"Culture and Belief" general education requirement, for example, I would
have to navigate away from the "courses" tab to the "campus resources"
tab, click on the "general education" link, and then click on the
"courses" link within a separate general education webpage. Furthermore,
the course listings on the general education webpage do not include any
q-scores, so I would have to search for every single class I find
interesting back at the "courses" tab of my.harvard.edu. I know there is
already courses.cs50.net, but I wish Harvard would update their official
interface. An easy fix would be to have a "courses library" in the
"courses tab", in which people could browse by various categories (gen
ed, concentration, etc). Even better is if there were less rigid
categories such as "Pre-med requirements" or "Pre-Law Courses".
Categories by time, such as "Classes for early risers" and "After 12pm"
would be great as well. Information for which course fall into these
types of categories is always available somewhere, but having them
incorporated into the courses tab would save people from having to first
look up possible courses and then searching them one-by-one. Finally, I
also have a suggestion for courses.cs50.net. It would be nice to have
more q-guide search filters besides just "course overall" score and
"instructor" score. For example, workload and difficulty are also
important factors I look at when choosing courses and it would be nice
to be able to filter courses using those categories.

* There are several problems with Harvard's sites. First, when I was
trying to do placement tests over the summer, I had a hard time finding
the site for them. Finding the site that described them
(http://placement-info.fas.harvard.edu/icb/icb.do) was easy, but the
link to the actual placement tests was hidden (I believe until you
logged in, but I had no way of knowing that so I just looked around
frustrated...). I think that the link to the actual test should be right
below the description of each exam and, if it is hidden due to the user
not having logged in, TELL THE USER that they are not crazy, the test
should be there but they just haven't logged in. Also, less important, I
think that the courses.cs50.net equivalent in my.harvard.edu should
allow you to make lists of various classes. Right now, the list of
classes that I want to take at some point is just sitting on my course
planner since there is no better place for it. That is awkward and
unwieldy. For courses.cs50.net, in the calendar portion, when you block
out "busy" time, you can't title it. I inputted my labs and the like in
the calendar, but if I forget what that busy block means, I'm screwed.
Even if I don't forget though, it would just look nicer and be more
useful for planning my days if I could title each busy block and
therefore keep track of it. Finally, just in general, applications need
to stop forcing you to post to your facebook. I know this isn't exactly
what you want in this blurb, but I am irritated that Spotify refuses to
work for me if i don't let it post lame things to my facebook profile.
Yes, i think courses.cs50 did that initially, but I can easily turn that
off. Spotify will not play me music if I don't allow it access to my
wall. There, rant concluded.

* An poorly designed interface I have found is the my.harvard.edu. I
have not used the entire site; I only take issue with the something
small that I have used over and over and find myself disliking. If you
go to my.harvard.edu and click the courses tab you get a little list of
you courses for which you are registered. If you click on one of these
courses, you get a new window that pops up giving you a brief
description of the course, the time and location it meets, a link to the
course website, and a link to the Q report. You then have to click on
the link to the course website to get to the course itself. I believe
this demonstrates poor design because no one wants to get to the blurb.
They read the blurb when they registered for the class and it never
provides them new information. People also do not need this in a new,
useless window. People want to click on the class and get to the class
website where all the information in the little pop-up window is as well
as problem sets, notes, and, most likely, whatever the student was
looking for. It is not a big deal, but I would cut out the middle man.
Get rid of the little pop-up that just clutters up your screen and go
straight to the course website.

* I find the Harvard library online system to be extremely intricate and
confusing. For me to search an article or book, I have to go to
different websites directed from my.harvard.edu and each website does
not provide a clear explanation of what can be searched. In addition,
the library online system has too many branches and each branch employs
a different user interface. Therefore, the system looks messy and is
difficult to use. For me to fix it, I would simply put all the possible
search options into one webpage, dividing them into search online
articles within Harvard, search books within Harvard, search online
articles with Harvard's corporate sources, etc to make the search easier
and reduce the number of pages the use has to access before finding the
place for searching.

* The my.harvard.edu page is a bit difficult to use given the context in
which I normally utilize it. Normally, I use the page in order to get to
my course pages, either for the lecture notes or for the problem sets.
This process takes me through at least two log on screens and numerous
pages, so that I end up checking these pages less often than I should.
It would be great if the courses in which we are enrolled could appear
on a dashboard, etc. on the top of the main my.harvard.edu screen, or if
the URLs for course pages could be changed to something simple to
remember, like cs50.net, for sake of user friendliness.

* I do not like the user interface found at my.harvard.edu, and its
subsidiary isites. It takes a considerable length of time and sometimes
repeated log-ins to get to many course webpages where psets or readings
may be posted. Additionally, navigating between any of the various
isites becomes a tedious process instead of having one streamlined and
efficient menu. The most important things that the site has is its
access to the course pages, and those can be tucked away multiple menus
into the site. A way to design this would to give the main website a
menu bar to the side or bottom that persists through the rest of the
site and always includes the list of courses in which one is currently
enrolled in order to facilitate ease of use on the part of the user.
That being said, the menus themselves are relatively self-explanatory
which does aid in the quest to download one's homework, but that does
not subtract from the amount of time it takes to do so.

* my.harvard.edu has a lot of extra tabs/ applications that students
don't use. These just clutter up the interface and make the site less
user-friendly. For example, the first page users are taken to is a "My
Page" which is completely unnecessary. Most students only use this
website to look at courses and fill out a study card. Rather than mimic
iGoogle or allow personalization of a useless page, "My Page" should
contain course information. Harvard stores a lot of information in
separate places. It logically makes sense to me to connect the "courses'
tab to the Advising Portal, but the advising portal is a completely
separate website. I would merge the two into a new My Page. Next, there
are 2 calendar tabs, which is also inefficient. Since the undergrads
were recently moved over to Gmail, these two calendars should also use
the same platform for easier integration. The calendars and the email
should be linked seamlessly into one page as well. All the other Harvard
administrative info ie library info, university links, financial aid can
be combined on to an additional page. This leaves 3 pages, better
organization, and probably better usage of the site.

* I avoid my.harvard.edu and even more than that, the main harvard
registrar's office site as much as possible. There are so many links on
my.harvard.edu, and I can never find what I am looking for. Now that I
am used to it, it's fine, but I know as a Freshman I was beyond
confused. There is the OSL website and the OCS website which I feel are
super important as well, but all four sites are so disconnected. If they
could organize the site a little better and put all of the important
links in once place with a description of where that link takes you (so
you aren't just guessing and clicking random stuff) that would be super
helpful. I really really appreciate the cs50 course tool; it is the best
thing ever! But, I feel like we should have a more accessible
my.harvard.edu site in general.

* isites.harvard.edu domain is awful. The isites domain is a hub for
instructors (at least those not cool enough to have their own domain and
army of undergrads to manage it) to pass materials to students. The
process to get to the isites.harvard.edu domain for the Harvard
Extension School is a bit of a debacle since what one sees on a course's
site depends on how one gets to it. Entry to isites.harvard.edu can
happen one of three ways: http://extension.harvard.edu/login,
my.harvard.edu, and through the HES course catalog. Entry through the
first two domains results in somewhat easy entry, though sometimes we
have to login twice, despite using the same browser. Entry through the
course catalog results in what is supposed to be the website for a
class, but despite logging in using the same PIN at the same subdomain
as the first two, chances are that users might not see everything that
the instructor posted for download. The result has been that some
students were able to get their assignments and others couldn't until
they got to class and were told how to gain entry. We must have devoted
a good twenty minutes of class time in the opening weeks of my math
class because of the confusion surrounding the subdomains. I was one of
the ones who figured this out early and even gave a demo. In addition,
information from iCommons intended for faculty and staff is included in
the students' announcement feed, and announcements for course postings
can get lost in the din. All three of the mentioned domains could stand
a major overhaul. About the only good thing is that they are all tied
into the Harvard PIN system (but not email, which is weird.)

* The my.harvard.edu system is somewhat flawed. It doesn't allow you an
option to stay logged in longer than an hour or so, even though the site
has no fundamental ways to breach one's privacy if a third party gained
access to it, certainly less so than gmail, which allows you to stay on
for a long period of time. Generally, the pin system should have a way
to stay logged in on one's computer, because the pin system only logs
you into the particular application you are trying to access. If say,
you want to log into the SEO website after already logging into
my.harvard.edu, you must log in again. This seems like an unnecessary
hassle. It would be simple enough to generate an all-encompassing cookie
that could log you into any site that required a pin password, and that
could stick around for several days like most emails have. If Harvard
does this for security purposes, it seems odd, because services like
gmail, which should have more sensitive information than one's
my.harvard page, allow the unlimited login. Harvard could still maintain
an additional login to access the unofficial transcript stored at
my.harvard.edu.

* I can't stand the course selection tool on my.harvard.edu. It's very
clunky to use, requires reloading of the entire page on every page (so
not dynamic really) and the organizational tools it provides are clunky,
unweildly and export nastily. I think the biggest improvements would be
an active search (like apple spotlight, google instant etc.) with drag
and drop functionality for courses and a dynamic, self-contained module
that operates within an already loaded site.

* I think that the my.harvard.edu website is an example of poor design
which fails to consider the user's purpose for going to the site. When I
log in, I am greeted with the weather and an ambiguous white box to
store "My Notes." The weather is fine, but if I'd wanted to see the
weather forecast, I would have gone to weather.com directly. But wait!
According to a tiny MODIFY THIS PAGE button in the corner, I can change
what shows up - let's add the dining hall menus! Clicking on this gives
me the message: "Topic is not available to site." So much for
customization. (I also ended up adding something called Web Statistics
for FAS Accounts, which, as far as I can tell, consists solely of a
blank gray box...). Anyway, back to my original purpose - I typically
use the site to access faculty websites. Doing this requires that I
click the courses tab and then a tiny button matching the name of the
class. This works fine, but I'd prefer if I could click these links from
the homepage directly. Overall, I'd say that the website suffers from
trying to do everything and ending up doing everything poorly. For
instance, I don't think linking to Harvard email is necessary, nor is
linking to the Harvard library website, running enclosed in a little
box. The Campus Resources are also poorly organized - last time I
checked, US Voter Registration didn't have much to do with FAS
Academics. I would streamline the website by organizing it around a
central homepage with direct links to class websites and other pieces of
information of interest .

* I find the my.harvard website to be really complicated, especially the
campus resources tab. I always end up using the find command to find
what I'm looking for because I don't think the organization is very
intuitive.

* My.harvard is designed inefficiently when it comes to accessing my
classes. If I click on my History of Science course and navigate through
all of the tabs to find my readings and look at the syllabus, there is
no easy way to accessing my Psychology course afterwards. I have to hit
the previous page button as many times as necessary to get back to the
main page. This does not optimize for changing tasks on a whim. I would
fix this by keeping a header with links to all my courses on the top of
the page when I access different course websites.

* My.harvard.edu always takes too many steps to get somewhere, and often
opens new windows and is just overall a hassle (it is also ugly). The
mobile version, or maybe just the iPhone version is even more horrible
and I have trouble accessing my courses from my iPhone. While it is
self-explanatory, and usually ends up working, I often have to find
things through Google. To fix it I would stop opening things in new
windows, and have fewer menus that are more comprehensive. I would also
have more of a Harvard directory to find the random bits of information
needed. Another thing that is horrible is the math department website.
There is not really any clarity in the header names, so you end up
scrolling through many pages to maybe find information you want. The
information is sometimes outdated and sometimes contradictory. Some of
the links do not work. In addition, the information they do have
(besides only helping you in your first weeks of freshman year) are all
in pdfs and are slow to open and just irksome.

* my.harvard.edu is a very helpful website but it has some parts that
could change. first, when I press on a course it opens a new tab with a
description of the course and only after I press coursewebsite it
redirects me to the website. I would love to if when I pressed on any
course on my planner it brought me directly on the new tab of the course
without passing through a temporary tab. also, it would be nice if the
que guide was integrated in my.harvard.edu and not on a separate
website.

* Course Planner for my.harvard.edu and the Q Guide (as well as CS50's
implementation of the Q guide in courses.cs50.net) Atrocious: - From
course planner website, need to make 2 clicks to get to a course website
that's listed under course planner heading (with each click opening a
new window). Remedy: Don't make the meaningless intermediate window that
just has the course summary and the link to the course's iSite put up.
Instead, make the details of the course expand under the course heading
upon clicking (with a link to the course's iSite). - The links to the
iSites of the classes you're currently taking are listed in an extremely
small, dismissible font near the top of the webpage (I just saw these
shortcuts now after using the ). Remedy: Enlarge their fonts and change
their font color to a more visible one. - "My Courses" section in the
Course Planner page is all the way at the bottom of the page when
there's a large column of empty space on the right where it can go. -
Harvard's Q Guide lists only 5 comments at a time for a class. Remedy:
Allow for more to be displayed (possibly add a listbox so students can
choose how many are displayed at a time). - Pre-term planning is mixed
for Fall and Spring semesters. Remedy: Put Fall term courses under one
heading and Spring term courses under another heading (there's already
built-in capacity for this: the 2011-2012 header expands and contracts).
- When viewing the graphical calendar, you can't delete added
sections/extracurricular blocks. You can only do so from the
pre-planning on the Course Planning page by deselecting all the other
checked classes and activities and only checking the
classes/sections/extracurricular blocks you want to remove. Remedy:
Allow for drag and drop of sections/extracurricular blocks in the
graphical calendar as well as for right-click deleting capabilities or
at least provide listings (as they do for classes) for
section/extracurricular blocks with a delete button next them on the
graphical calendar page. Also, on the Course Planning page, separate
added section/extracurricular blocks from pre-planning courses (to avoid
having to deselect all the checked courses and reselecting them after
deleting a section/extracurricular block) - For the Q Guide, no search
function is available to search for a particular course's rating (Only
can go through departmental courses). To do so, one must use the course
planning website to search for the class and then click for its ratings.
Remedy: Include a search function in the Q Guide. - For "My Page" of
my.harvard.edu, the shuttle schedule fails to show to approximated
arrival time of a bus at a stop. Remedy: Do this. Improvements: - Change
the numbered Q rankings into graphical depictions of stars or some other
image (Easier for comparison and understanding) - For Q guide,
instantaneously update the page once a different Benchmark radio button
has been selected. - Campus Resources page of my.harvard.edu is poorly
organized; too much text; it's hard to find what you're looking for.
Remedy: Use more graphics and colors to differentiate the different
resources and categorize them better (i.e. Important Services: HUPD,
Support services, etc. Opportunities: Study Abroad, Internships, OCS,
etc.

* I really dislike the pre-term planning tool on the my harvard site.
This tool is very difficult to use because it makes you go through way
too many steps just to pick your courses. Not only is the search for
courses annoying and slow, but you also have to tag courses and
afterwards add them on another page entirely! I would fix this problem
by making it so you don't have to navigate through so many searches and
pages just to add the courses you want. If there were a page for
pre-term planning that simply listed all of the courses (or all the
departments, and by clicking on a department you could see all of the
courses it offered) and let you click on the ones you wanted, that would
be a lot easier for me.

* Almost everything related to Harvard is completely decentralized on
the web. There should be an easy way to access all department pages and
the course guide and isites without having to change websites and log in
many times. My.harvard.edu attempts to do this, but it's set up in a
pretty terrible way. No one uses that for the weather, but it's the
first thing displayed. You have to click on tab after tab to access the
things you would actually want to use it for, like the Q guide, course
catalog, isites, etc.

* I think that the courses page of my.harvard could be better designed.
I think that one could have multiple different "lists" to which one
could add classes. These lists could include the "pre-term planning"
list and the "registered" list. That way, one can keep a running list of
class that one is interested in shopping, but have a short concise list
when one is registered.

* I think the my.harvard.edu system is absolutely ridiculous—it takes
forever to get to a class website from the time that you sign in. The
homepage tab is full of irrelevant details that I never use. Adding or
subtracting classes to your list of classes also takes forever. It is an
extremely counterintuitive user interface.

* The my.harvard web page isn't completely user-friendly; the design of
its interface could have been implemented in a way geared more toward
usability. When one logs into my.harvard, the 'My page' is what is
brought up. For me, I almost always log into my.harvard simply to look
at my course websites under the Courses tab after which the course site
of choice is opened up through yet another button. Although 'My page'
can be customized, I have not found a way to add the course websites to
that main page. My complaint is that multiple unnecessary hoops have to
be gone through to get to a specific course website. This seems like bad
design to me. I would fix this site by adding links to the user's course
websites right on the main 'My page' that is brought up when the user
logs in. Basically, this new design would create decrease the number of
steps to get to what most students want to check when they log into
my.harvard: courses!

* my.harvard.edu is very tedious to login to. When you first type in the
url, it takes you to a page with a few bullets of information; from
there you must click a link just to log in using your HUID. Then the
my.harvard homepage comes up with weather, some Harvard news and other
customizable information that, frankly, students don't go to my.harvard
to look at (I can just click a shortcut on my browser to look at weather
or Harvard news, rather than go through links and then a log-in). Most
are there to access the course websites -- this requires an additional
click on the Courses tab, followed by clicking on the class listed
across the top of the page. It would help if my.harvard.edu would
directly provide a space to log in. Furthermore, once logged in, it
would be helpful if the user can set which "homepage" comes up -- most
likely it students would prefer the courses tab.

* Harvard's pre-term planning portal is pretty unintuitive. It's
definitely not self-explanatory since the site has a video demonstration
just to show you how to use it. There are confusing worksheets, tags,
etc. and I'm never sure if I'm doing the right thing at any given
moment. It seems to me that it could be as simple as the courses section
of my.harvard (another site that could use a redesign!), where you
simply browse courses, and add them to your pre-term planning list with
one simple click.

* The pre-term planning tool here at Harvard is absolutely horrific.
First, it requires three different steps of clicking and logging in just
to get to the proper website. Then it requires you to go through many
different steps (on a different website from where we normally manage
our courses) to add classes, and it is very hard to understand,
necessitating watching a tutorial video that is provided just to use the
site. (Unfortunately, the tool is closed at the moment, and I don't
remember every step off the top of my head, so I can't give you a more
thorough breakdown of what exactly must be done-- but trust me, it's
horrible and complicated). It seems like this should be easy to fix-- we
should do pre term planning the same way we do our study cards. We
should just be able to search for classes in the my.harvard portal,
click on them, and click "Add to Preterm planning."

* The course planner: when you add a course to the planner and click on
it, you need to go through a pop-up window to access the description and
be redirected to either the Q-scores or homepage. Several courses later,
and your entire computer is filled with popups! This doesn't optimize
for the common case. There is currently so much free space on the right
side of the screen (next to the Course Planner box) -- I would recommend
to use this part of the screen to display course information and more
detailed Q-score information. I would also integrate the Q-score reviews
with the Course Planner interface to prevent so many open tabs while
looking through courses.

* The courses tab on my.harvard.edu is pretty bad, as well as
my.harvard.edu in general. Should the front page really be the weather?
Anyway, the courses tab should give you info that you would need to look
up while taking a course, not just be a tool for picking new courses.

* The Pre-Term Planning tool requires quite a few steps more than
necessary to add courses to a student's pre-term planning. The tutorial
suggests that students tag their courses before adding them to the
pre-term planning, but this is an unnecessary step if a student has
already added courses to the my.harvard page. The pre-term planning page
is also somewhat unintuitive in that there is a tab labeled "Pre-Term
Planning", but to add courses to the pre-term planning, it is necessary
to go to the "Browse Courses" tab. Instead of the current tool, I would
integrate pre-term planning with the my.harvard interface. Just as
students add courses to their study cards through my.harvard, so could
they add courses to pre-term planning. This would be much more
straightforward.

* I use my.harvard.edu to get to my course websites, although I am
always annoyed with one part of the design. From the tab at the top, I
can select Courses, after which I see my four classes in a small bar
underneath: COMPSCI 50, HIST 1627, PHYSICS 16, and STAT 110. Clicking
any of these will get me to that course website within my.harvard.edu
(CS 50 is different since it links to a separate site). However, say I
click PHYSICS 16, and after browsing around a little bit, want to go
STAT 110. There is no link that will directly get me there.
Additionally, say I have clicked many links so that hitting back will
take a while. Then I end up first clicking the my.harvard logo, then
click the Courses tab, and then select STAT 110. This takes 3 clicks
when it really should take 1. The fix is simple: the tab of courses
should follow the user around, even when looking at a particular
course's site.

* I actually think that my.harvard.edu is rather poorly designed -- at
least the course planning tool. I feel that it's very difficult to find
classes and access them easily because the names need to be very exact.
Adding them to the study card is also very difficult and could probably
be a lot easier. The courses.cs50.net website is much better, in my
opinion. If I could fix the website, I think I would just try to make it
better organized. Everything would be clearly labeled, and the course
planner would be a little "sexier" looking -- maybe something that would
run faster, like the courses.cs50.net one. I feel like this one just
looks really outdated and takes more time to use because you have to
click a button each time you want to change something, and that
refreshes the page, and then you have to go through a long process.

* my.harvard.edu seems like it was designed quite a long time ago, both
aesthetically and in terms of design. Once I log in on the website,
my.harvard seemingly helpfully shows me "My page", which includes
weather details for Cambridge, recent Harvard-related news stories on
the bottom, "My Notes" on the right side, and a shuttle schedule in the
bottom-right. I have yet to meet anyone who relies on the my.harvard.edu
webpage to check the weather, look at shuttle times, or take notes. I do
think that the stream of Harvard-related news is not a bad idea, but the
rest of this page is pretty much worthless. The things anyone actually
uses are located under the "Courses" and "Campus Resources" tabs on the
top of the page. Once you click on "Courses," you can navigate to the
websites for the courses you are taking by 1) clicking the course in
your "Course Planner" in the middle of the screen, then clicking "Course
Website" on the pop-up menu that comes up afterwards, or 2) clicking the
minuscule links on the top of the page that actually list the courses
you are currently enrolled in. This system is inefficient, because the
current "Courses" tab tries to be a hybrid between a system to link to
all your courses and a search engine to find courses you'd like to take.
Instead, the original "My page" should prominently feature links to the
courses you are currently enrolled in, since that is what students
actually log onto my.harvard to use, and the "Courses" tab should be
designed exclusively as a search engine, used to look for courses that a
student is not currently taking. Dividing the two separate roles the
"Courses" tab currently has into two separate pages will make world of
difference for this design flaw. And then there's the "Campus Resources"
tab, which seems to just be a mishmash of literally everything that
doesn't fit anywhere else. This includes things such as the "Freshman
Housing Lottery" (which I participated in about 6-7 months ago) on the
top of my page, the "My Communication Packet" on the right side (I have
no idea what that is), and then a huge number of links to things as
diverse as the website for HUPD, Harvard College Facebook, Online
Student Record, and Financial Aid Office. Several of these links -- the
ones used most often by students -- should be moved to the student home
page, and the other links should be categorized into separate tabs.
There is no reason to dump everything on a single page and leave
students to figure out everything for themselves. When I got to Harvard,
my.harvard had a pretty steep learning curve. I had to ask around to
figure out how to register, find courses, check my grades, look at
financial aid information, or do anything else under the current system.
This is not how the system ought to work. I hope the creation of HUIT
means that these ancient, clunky websites will be replaced in the near
future with something far more user-friendly, intuitive, and efficient
(not to mention better-looking). I've got my fingers crossed.

* I think the My.harvard.edu home page has an interface that can be
improved. There are multiple links to get to many pages - course
selection, @college email, transcript, library search, etc. When you
click on the course "Culture and Belief 37", for example, it takes you
to a webpage that gives a summary and a link to the actual course
website. I do not think this page is necessary - it would be nice to
just have the course website pop up immediately. It would also be nice
to have a search function, have the buttons. Additionally, the Course
Planner and Study Card system has an interface that can be improved.
There are too many buttons involved just to add or remove a program from
the Course Planner. I would fix this problem by implementing large
buttons that are easy to find and bring the user directly to the pages
they are looking for.

* I have noticed that many Harvard applications are becoming more
facebook integrated (probably 100% because of cs50), which is very
convenient, and that the email switched over to Gmail (thank god that I,
as a freshman, only had to use the horrible @college server for a
month). However, I have noticed that no Harvard apps (such as iSites or
the calendar on the myHarvard page) are Google calendar integrated. As
such, many extracurricular groups/ classes have to use Doodle to figure
out schedules, which is EXTREMELY inconvenient and annoying (especially
when you have to fill them out multiple times). I would fix the design
(and I'm thinking about doing this for my final project) by allowing
these programs to integrate Gcal with the harvard calendar database etc.
present on the myHarvard page, and can also use a program like Doodle to
organize schedules, etc.

* Since arriving at Harvard, I've been disappointed with the user
interface of the my.harvard pages. On the one hand, the homepage is very
easily customized; however, I believe that (in the "common case") most
users aren't looking to modify the page themselves. Rather, they'd
probably prefer to have the most useful links / tools laid out for them,
placed neatly on the homepage for quick and easy access. Obvious links
to things like @college e-mail, the advising network portal, the FDO
website, and other useful tools (which I had to add myself to the "My
Links" section) should probably come pre-loaded. The calendar
functionality is limited (if not completely obsolete at this point),
which may be a result of the fact that most students are now using
separate calendar applications (Google Calendar or iCalendar). That
being said, it should be easier to export school events into those
third-party calendar apps -- something which has already been done in
the Courses section. Ultimately, things should just be more centralized.
To compensate, students are making their own sites that are trying to
improve the accessibility of things like the course catalog
(HarvardCourses), the school events calendar (HarvardEvents), etc. While
this is great, the downside is that these are now all very
decentralized, and my.harvard (which should ideally be a one-stop shop
for all things Harvard) makes little attempt to alleviate this issue. If
it were up to me, I would have these sites accessible from -- or, better
yet, integrated into -- my.harvard.edu, effectively eliminating the need
to improve the poor functionality of the course catalog / events
calendar that are currently offered through my.harvard itself.

* I really don't think that the pre-term planning/concentration plan of
study tool is designed well at all. My choices from my course planner,
courses.cs50, or other websites do not automatically populate into the
courses that I wish to select for PTP. Instead, I have to hope that I
happened to indicate that course while filling out my plan of study or
manually search through several steps to find the course before adding
that to a list from which I can make a PTP selection. It is only
optimized for the uncommon case of an upperclassman following the
original plan of study. I would love to just have it directly as a
button from courses.my.harvard (just like study cards) if I did it at
all.

* The my.harvard.edu courses search tool is poorly designed. It only
allows you to search based on class name, which is very subpar. I would
fix it so that the search criteria would be expanded to allow you to
search classes based on other factors such as term offered, professor,
time slot, etc. Also, it only picks up on the class if you type in close
to the exact title of the course. I would fix this by expanding the
search tool to recognize nicknames for courses and departments.

* The my.harvard.edu has a section called "Library". It is not very
user-friendly, and navigating through the site is difficult. The
"Announcements" which take up most of the page are unnecessary, and
distract the user from his/her aim. There could be links to each
library, such as Cabot, Lamont etc, in a menu on the side of the site.
By clicking on the library link, the user could view the announcements
for that particular library. In order to find online research, one must
click on "E-Resources", and this opens up a new window of a different
design. There is very little information to help a new user become
familiar with the website. It would be easier if the library catalog
were more interactive and if "E-Resources" opened in the same window. It
also does not take you immediately to the "Quick Search" link. The
search could be conducted in one window, in the my.harvard.edu site, so
that the user need not switch between windows. The searching system
could be better organized to resemble the course catalog on CS50's
website, whereby the user can enter a search keyword, select a category,
publishing year, etc. Quick Search only lets you select a
department/category under which the research could fall. In order to
conduct more specific searches, the user has to click on "Find
E-Resources". The site is not organized so that the user has to go to
only one page where he/she can search. It's layout is not optimal. It
would be better to combine all the search pages into one search engine
on one page, and have drop down menus such as "More Details" if the user
wishes to provide more information on the research he/she wishes to
find.

* The My.Harvard website is incredibly difficult to navigate and is not
very user friendly. While the primitive aesthetics are so so and
acceptable, location of information and the way to get to certain pages
is very counter-intuitive. Many students, including myself, have given
up on searching internally and instead elect to use Google search to
find information. Also, many of the more useful tools are not easily
visible or are buried in a list of otherwise useless tools. I believe
one of the main reasons for this is because the isites system was not
designed with all of the new tools and advances in technology in mind.
Many of the new implementations try to tack on code to an existing
framework that is already lacking in efficiency. As a result, the
interface has become quite cluttered and too busy for "true efficiency,"
and there is no real easy way to edit what is already there without
possibly disturbing other systems. And an entire system overhaul may
create even more errors than the current inconveniences, especially
while the HUIT department is handling the traffic of all the new
implementations (such as the @college migration to Gmail). I've tried to
work with several resident deans to create a central information portal
for Harvard that won't replace My.Harvard, but rather create a new
framework on which to migrate all of the old tools (much like what djm
did/is doing with shuttleboy, courses, etc.). If I could, I'd actually
love to work with djm, other Harvard programmers, and HUIT on beginning
to create a new framework (or if more feasible, modify the existing) for
a central Harvard portal. - No more bajillion tools in random places -
More concise grouping of commonly used tools - Better shuttle tracking
integration (which may be one of the most used tools) - Optional
integration with "3rd-party" tools (such as Shuttleboy) - Ability to
customize and personalize the interface (widgets? resize? location?) -
Cleaner interface - Mobile isites overhaul (I always choose to view
standard...all the useful information is truncated, and all the useless
information not displayed on the standard site is present) Etc. I do
want to say that I don't fully understand the circumstances upon which
these problems exist, so I can't say all of my comments are reasonable -
but they do reflect true issues I hope to see resolved in the near
future. We are the number 1 school in the world :D

* I think that there is a poor user interface in my.harvard.edu. If I
want to go to a course website, i have to click the courses tab, then
click the tab of the individual course I want to see, which pops up as a
blurb about the course, a link to its website, and the Q score. This
information is good when shopping, but even then the interface is not
ideal and most people end up using the cs50 shopping tool. Because you
have to go through so many steps just to get to the course website, and
most people do not use this to shop, I can see there is room for
improvement in this interface.

* The whole class website system seems disorganized and inefficient to
me. The courses are registered on my.harvard.edu, most classes' websites
are through isites, and the q scores are held on another site as well.
Instead of having all this information spread out with different looks
and navigations, it would make sense to centralize it onto one site,
perhaps my.harvard.edu. Whenever I am looking up a class or looking for
information on it, I invariably end up with multiple disjointed tabs and
there is no real continuity present.

* The harvard course planner can be rather infuriating. There is no way
to add courses directly into your plan of study; instead you must search
for courses using a different tab on the site, then add them to a list
of courses, then add them from that list into your schedule. And once
you have done that, the site cannot even tell you if the courses you
have selected fulfill any requirements. This site is not optimized for
its common case, which is particularly irksome since its common case is
its only case: adding courses into a proposed schedule. This process
could be streamlined by allowing course searching on the same page as
the planner and then adding functionality to move courses directly from
search results on that page into the planner. If information could also
be added to each course so that the site could assess whether gen-ed and
concentration requirements are met by a given combination of classes, it
would be even better.

* This is a very minor complaint, but one thing I have been annoyed with
here at Harvard is that after you have logged into my.harvard.edu using
your Harvard ID and PIN, once on a course website you often have to log
in again. It would seem more inefficient if you only had to log on once.
Like I said, not really that big of a deal though.

* I really cannot stand the pre-term planning tool, which is incredibly
difficult to navigate and use. There are various tabs and "tagging
functions" that make the tool a hassle to use because to put a class
into our schedule, we have to go through multiple steps (tagging class,
then selecting it, going to the schedule tab, and finally adding it). I
think this tool should be integrated with the course selection tool we
normally use on my.harvard.edu -- just to streamline the process.

* The Harvard Course site through my.harvard .edu is so much worse,
slower and harder to use than the courses.cs50 website. This should
replace or be built into the my.harvard.edu site

* I think my.harvard.edu could be improved. Each tab has tons of leaks
and the link one is looking for blends in well with the surrounding
links.

* I think that the course selection tool in my.harvard.edu is very hard
to use. It is very difficult to browse through a long list of courses
you may be interested in and you usually have to know exactly what the
name of the course is to find it. Perhaps there should be a way to
combine the course catalogue with the shopping/selection tool so it is
easier to browse.

* my.harvard.edu I have some issues with. I'll focus on the way I
usually use it, which is to check various things about the classes I'm
taking. First, I have to navigate to the "classes" tab every time, and
then hunt for my current classes among the list of all the classes I was
shopping. It would be nice if our current classes were listed on the
main page. Then, after clicking on the individual class, a separate
browser window pops up, with a small description of the class but no
real information. I then have to click "course website" in that window,
and am usually prompted to login again even if I just logged in. It
would simplify things for the user if there was a link to "course
website" directly on my.harvard.edu.

* The experience of using Harvard's set of websites to register for and
then take my first extension class was perhaps more painful than is
explicitly needed. I currently keep track of four separate pieces of
login information - a Harvard Extension PIN and password, an Account ID
and separate password, an FAS email address login, and a CS50 userID and
password. That does not even get into the fact that before signing up
for CS50 I was registered for a class that used web-based tools across
three more sites, each with their own login information. This is a
system that could benefit from both a single sign-on system and a
standardization of tools across online education. If the information
used to login to handle class registration also gained me access to my
harvard.fas.edu account AND the CS50 server, well, that would just be
hunky dory!

* The Courses tab on My.Harvard is really hard to navigate. I would like
to see a more user-friendly search interface, maybe with instantaneous
search results as you type. I would like to see the graphic schedule on
the same page as the search page --> utilize the full width of the page.
I would like to be able to refine search results or sort them according
to some criteria. I really hate how it opens so many new windows -
they're so hard to keep track of. I would like to see course details and
Q scores on the same page as the search results. I guess the most
frustrating part of the Course tab for me is how disjointed it is. You
have to open new windows to see the Q scores, to see the graphic
schedule, the graphic schedule doesn't show room numbers, etc. I would
like to be able to compare times, Q scores, locations, professors, exam
times and prerequisites of courses in one window.

* I think the my.harvard portal is not especially well designed. For
one, they could have just used a google calendar (they already are using
gmail). This would look way better than theirs. But more importantly, I
have a section on Sunday, but I can't add that to my calendar because it
ONLY allows me to put stuff in for the weekdays. Also, It is very
frustrating that when I use it, I have to keep putting in my password
over and over again to access all the different parts of the sites I go
to.

* I think the Harvard course planning tool is poorly designed. It has
multiple fields to view Q scores, schedules, and lists of courses you're
considering/enrolled in, without making clear the relationships between
them. For example, you have to add each course to your Course Planner,
your Study Card, and MyCourses at various times, but the website doesn't
explain that or how you have to do this, so you're left to simply click
every possible option on the screen while attempting to make a study
card. Furthermore, you should be able to view a course's schedule and Q
scores without having to first go through the Course Planner window.

* On my.harvard.edu, I feel that the function that allows me to put
classes I want to take on a graphic calendar to visualize my schedule is
poorly designed. The pre-term planning classes appear twice and when I
try to print the schedule displayed, EVERYTHING gets printed, including
the navigation bars and such. Most users probably don't care about
printing the navigation bars, so I would take that out and focus on
solely printing the schedule.

* My.harvard.edu I think is poorly designed from a UX standpoint. You
should always try to minimize the number of clicks a user has to perform
overall. Therefore, make the most popular options the easiest and most
accesible. All of the widgets on the home page I do not use. By far, the
thing I click on 95% of the time is courses in order to get to my course
websites. I would automatically summarize the courses and have direct
links to the courses from the main page (unlike now when you get to that
page and click on a course, you get a pop up window with a link to go to
the course website).

* The HBS term bill payment platform (www.termbill.harvard.edu)
frustrates me... I click the link from the HBS website, which has been
redirecting me to another website ever since I've been a student (dating
back to two summers ago). Seems like HBS could have permanently changed
the website URL by now. Once I get to an isites.harvard.edu URL, I have
to indicate whether I'm a student or authorized payer. Am I not both?
This is confusing. Once I click the student button, a new tab opens
where I have to login with my Harvard PIN credentials. Then, after about
a five second delay, I'm redirected to a quickpayasp.com URL, where I
have to select "Make Payment" from a small dropdown. Then I have to go
through several more steps before all is said and done. Along the way,
each site has a completely different user interface. And when I am
finished, I have three tabs that I need to close.

* Harvard's study card web application and my.Harvard.edu in general
handle poorly. The layout does not allow for intuitive browsing or
reaching the desired content quickly. The Q guide is also poorly
designed. It requires that the responses to a question be selected, even
when there is only one option.

* The plan of study tool that Harvard has. It is so tedious to search
for classes, pick them, and put them in the plan of study. It is so
complicated to switch back and forth between the classes on
my.harvard.edu and the plan of study...everything should be in the same
place so you can search for a class, see the Q score, see the time, and
then add it to your plan of study. Many times, I select a class, it
satisfies everything, and then I realize that it's either not offered in
the semester that I selected, or it meets at the same time as another
class. The program is just really hard to organize and involves many
steps to actually get your plan of study created.

* My.harvard.edu is designed with little consideration towards what it
is primarily used for. Accessing the web pages for your courses requires
the user to navigate to a different page. Fortunately, students looking
for a weather forecast require no extra steps. Accessing any other
features of the website involves searching through lists of links that
are very generally categorized. A better designed website would have
course information on the homepage and a greater number of subdivisions
of the each section (i.e. mousing over "Campus Resources" on the top
navigation bar would create a drop down list of FAS Academics, Faculty
Research, FAS Financial Aid Office, etc.).

* In my opinion, the pre-term planning and plan of study tool is
horribly designed. It is way more complicated than it needs to be. The
complexity adds nothing to the experience of using it. The way you have
to set up tags and keep switching between them is unintuitive. It
doesn't automatically start to fill in what counts for certain
requirements. Doing a single task takes many clicks. It would be so much
easier if it were drag and drop and it would be easier if the site
itself could check for the filling of requirements. Also, it should be
integrated with my.harvard just like the study card tool is (the study
card tool got a lot better this year due to better integration with
my.harvard. I would love for courses.cs50.net to become the official
tool and for the plan of study tool to somehow be integrated with
courses.cs50.net

* Accessing myHarvard sites through the iPhone is a pain in the butt.
Once the page is done loading, it changes into the mobile site which is
inefficient. Instead of being able to readily access everything on the
current page without having to look for various options under a
scroller, it requires a new page to be loaded once an option is chosen.
It would be much easier for myHarvard to not have any mobile device
detection, as it takes up MORE time to load each section of a page.

* I think that a clearly flawed design is present in the course
selection tool for my.harvard.edu. It's design is subpar both because it
is aesthetically displeasing, and because it makes course search
unnecessarily difficult. Without getting the name perfectly correctly, I
am not allowed to just search for a course like "MCB 52" without typing
in biology and searching through a longer list of courses. An easy fix
would be to modify the search tool so that the strings don't have to be
exactly identical, but similar- sort of like the way CS50's selection
tool seems to work.

* There are so many Harvard websites, and one for each different office,
department, etc. The main Harvard website seems to be made for the
purpose of advertising and showcasing Harvard, while the websites that
students actually use are cluttered and disconnected. For example, the
my.harvard.edu wesbite is not connected with the advising portal or the
health services website. I actually don't even know if it's even linked
to the my.harvard.edu, I just google "harvard advising portal". Not to
mention the sectioning tool is completely separate from the courses part
of the my.harvard.edu site (there's not even a link...), even though
they're obviously related. Sectioning is also not standardized across
campus, and various courses can have completely different ways of
sectioning. I remembering using terminal on my mac to section for math.
That took awhile just to figure out.

* My.harvard.edu doesn't make much sense. The "courses" tab should be
displayed first, since that's what concerns most students (not the
weather), and shouldn't require extra steps to access. Also, clicking on
a course should take you directly to that course's website instead of
having that extra little box pop up with the course description. Also,
students should be able to access their transcripts directly from
my.harvard.edu instead of having to log into the Advising Network Portal
(I don't even know what that means).

* Except for CS50, which has a very convenient website, accessing course
websites is very hard at Harvard. All of them have very complicated urls
and they can't be easily found on Google. The easiest way (and still
very hard) of finding a the website of a course you're taking is going
to www.myharvard.edu, clicking Courses, searching the name of the
course, clicking at the name of the course and then clicking at "Course
Website" (so many steps!). The home page of myharvard.edu contains
weather forecast (as if someone would type their ID and PIN instead of
googling the weather), space for notes (I'm not even going to comment on
how useless that is), but nothing very useful. Harvard should improve
the website by, for example, putting the link for the courses that the
student is enrolled in the homepage, which would save A LOT of time.

* The Harvard websites taken collectively have a poor design in that it
is difficult to navigate between them. I would make all of the useful
sites (for students) such as my.harvard, the Advising Network Portal,
House websites, maintenance requests, etc. integrated with or at least
easily accessible from my.harvard. Ideally, I would make my.harvard
customizable so that a student could, for example, get rid of the
weather portal on the main page of my.harvard and replace it with links
to his course websites. Who uses my.harvard to check the weather anyway?

* my.harvard.edu's interface is clunky at best. Searching classes is not
as manageable as the CS50 Shopping Tool, but instead relies on a simple
search function without any ability to limit classes by time or Q
scores. Also, navigating to course websites themselves is difficult in
and of itself, without intuitive URLs or navigation from my.harvard.edu.
Lastly, my.harvard.edu doesn't integrate with some of the other useful
tools like the CS50 Shopping Tool, Student Planning Portal, etc.

* When a course in the course planner of my.harvard is selected, a new
tab opens with a summary and then a link to the course website. Because
the same summary is on the course website page, it unnecessarily opens
up a new window. Instead, it should just take the user directly to the
course website, so after browsing 10 classes a user does not have to
repeatedly open and close that many windows.

* My.Harvard.Edu was a little bit difficult to use when I first started
using it. It took me awhile to find my classes and their respective
course websites -- It would be easier if they were linked directly on
the main page so I don't have to go searching for them. Also when I was
first filling out/acquiring my financial information, and other various
pre-frosh information, it took me awhile to find that too -- the user
interface could be a little more simpler/friendly particularly in the
Campus Resources page -- there's an overwhelming amount of information
on that page. It's hard to find what you're looking for right away.
Maybe dividing up the categories into easier subcategories on the side
would be nice.

* Harvard's PTP tool (I've already sent a more detailed email to the
department about this): Adding a course to the PTP requires simply too
many clicks (compared to, let's say, courses.cs50.net or my.harvard):
First, you must have a list of tags. Then you must find the course, and
add the course to a tag, and only then can you hope to actually do with
the course what you are supposed to: put it on a planning sheet. This is
far more complicated than a system with dynamic search boxes which
search for your course as you type (Facebook friends search style).
Second, tags are a central feature to the PTP tool. You are expected to
sort your courses into tags (and realistically, everyone just ends up
putting every course on the same list, defeating the purpose) before you
can do anything useful with the courses. Tags should instead be an
optional feature for the particularly well-organized, not a default
option for the majority who find them burdensome. The search function
itself is bizarre. In most search engines (such as Google, Yahoo), a new
search is exactly that: a new search. With the PTP tool, a new search
searches within the last set of results. This is counter-intuitive,
because we often conduct a new search because our original search did
not provide the results we were looking for. Again, searching within
results should be an opt-in, not opt-out, feature. The interface itself
gives too much attention to less-performed tasks instead of focusing and
streamlining the functions students are using the tool for. The planning
sheets are a separate tab, hidden in the top bar, whereas they should be
the homepage when the tool is loaded. The main functions - finding
courses, adding them, and reviewing them - should be at the forefront of
the user experience; but instead, users have to dig through the website
to find them. Note that this critique is based on the summer PTP tool
and I have yet to look at the one for next semester. If you are going to
pass this on, I have one takeaway: PLEASE adopt the courses.cs50.net
method. it's way more intuitive.

* The my.harvard.edu interface for Android/iPad is not so great: 1)
Perhaps for security reasons, the site does not allow a "remember me"
option. I always found that annoying, because I expect to see it under
the log-in and it isn't there. 2) When navigated to the "homepage" on
the tablet, the most important tabs (in descending order: courses, email
[pfft... should link directly to gmail.com with current system],
library, campus resources) are not readily available. Rather, they're
hidden in an awkward dropdown menu that spans across the entire screen.
These "tabs" should be translated into large button options. 3)
Similarly, when navigating to Courses, one probably wants to look at
their most current courses. Instead, the user is presented with Course
Planner, MyCourses, and Searching for Course Information (instead of
already viewable information -- everything requires an extra
click-through!). Users should be able to see on the front page their
schedule, list of courses, and past courses without having to click
through. For tablets, these courses shouldn't be really long bars
spanning the screen, but rather rectangular buttons. Basically, too many
dropdown menus! Some important information can be directly displayed.
Also doesn't make good use of screen real estate. 4) Finally, I've never
figured out how to access my transcript from the my.harvard portal and
have always gone through the FAS Advising portal. There should be a link
to this information in the courses section, where it makes most sense to
have information about transcripts.

* The Harvard student planning portal SUCKS. Like, honestly, it's the
worst website I've ever used, and I'm ashamed that an institution as
highly-regarded as Harvard would ever use such a poorly implemented
website (not to mention how hideous it is from an aesthetic
perspective). I am generally somewhat computer savvy, and though I've
submitted multiple forms through this portal, I still have to re-read
the directions every time, because it makes you jump through hoops.
First of all, to get to the website, you have to either google the
appropriate search terms or click through a whole bunch of links in
my.harvard.edu, so it is rather hard to find. Secondly, in order to
actually submit a change in concentration, you have to make a planning
worksheet. In order to fill this planning worksheet with classes, you
have to go to a separate section of the portal (Browse Courses) and
search for the courses--the search, btw, is implemented such that you
have to clear each previous search before you search again, or it will
add your new search to the previous search--then tag them with a tag of
your choosing (e.g. "Spring 2011 Courses," or "Courses Taught by David
Malan"). You then must return to your planning worksheet and choose the
appropriate tag on the left, and then and only then can you add the
courses with a dropdown menu to wherever you choose. If you want to
choose courses from another tag, you have to again click on that tag.
You then have to go to an entirely separate section to print and review
your plan, and then, just to top it all off, you have to bring your form
to the registrar, instead of being able to register online like every
other school. You have to do this whole thing every semester for
pre-term planning. This website makes me want to hurt small animals (and
I like small animals). I would fix it by streamlining the process. First
of all, I would make the directions extremely clear upon first entering
the website. Second of all, I would make the search function more
straightforward (you don't have to clear your previous search every time
you search for something). Third, I would make it so that you can search
for courses right in the section where you fill your worksheet, so you
can add them directly (and maybe add multiple courses from one search,
if you search your concentration or something). Fourth, I would allow
users to print directly from the worksheet page, and sixth, I would make
printing largely unnecessary by having class registration happen online.

* I would change some details in the course planner in my.harvard.edu.
The most useful feature from the course planner is viewing the graphic
schedule to see the time conflicts of our classes. But in my.harvard we
have to choose the classes and see the graphic in different pages, which
makes us navigate back and forth between both pages.To improve it, I
would enable search for courses and adding or deleting courses in the
page of the graphic schedule. The same happens with adding sections and
extracurricular activities. Although we can (only) add them in the same
page of the graphic, we cannot delete them unless we go to the 'adding
courses' page. So the adding/dropping sections and extracurricular
activities should also be in the same page of the graphic schedule.
Also, when a section or a extracurricular activity is added in the
schedule, it appears in both fall and spring semesters. But the sections
hardly repeat from one semester to the other. So this is an inconvenient
feature that needs to be corrected. When adding a section or an
extracurricular activity the user should be asked in which semester it
should be added. It could be only fall, only spring or both (in case of
a extracurricular activity, both would make sense). Maybe check boxes
could be added when asking for information about a section/activity to
correct this.

* I mean, everyone will say this, but my.harvard.edu isn't very well
designed. Like, say I want to go to one of my course's websites. I have
to login (of course), then it first shows me the weather. So I have to
go click over into "Courses". Now I'm on the Courses page. It's true
that at the top of this there's a toolbar with my enrolled courses
listed that will let me go to each of their course websites, but it's
rather too subtle and hard to notice. So now if I miss that I scroll
down way to the bottom of the page and finally find my course's name and
click the link to get to the website. That's not so bad, but it's even
worse when you're shopping and don't have your 4 courses nicely listed.
To see the course website for a course you're not officially enrolled in
yet (a common use case, e.g. to see the course's syllabus, where the
course is being held, etc.), you have to click on the course's name in
the course planner (which doesn't actually look like a link), then that
opens a popup, THEN you click "Course Website" and you've finally
arrived. FIX: When you login to my.harvard.edu, I think the Courses page
should be the default page. I'm far more likely to just google "weather"
if I want the weather than login to Harvard. If I'm logging into
Harvard, I probably want something unique to me, like, say, the courses
I'm taking. Also, that little toolbar at the top that lists my current
enrolled courses should be more prominent so that people actually
realize it's there. Additionally, it'd be nice if the course planner had
another column that basically just had a blue (to make it obvious that
it's a link) link for each course in your planner (not that you've
necessarily enrolled in) to that course's website.

* I would say that the pre-term planning and study card portion of the
my.harvard.edu website could use some tuning. It's pretty clunky and
doesn't allow for users to move easily and choose courses in a manner
that resembles the 21st century. It pigeonholes users to the choices
they make in terms of PTP, and doesn't allow for easy searching of
courses.

* I despise the FAS IT site. It's filled with lots of information, but
it's not sorted or indexed very well, and I can never find what I
want/need. Additionally, the content is outdated, and it got my hopes up
about free adobe products only to have my heart crushed yet again. There
is also no uniform "control panel" for all your HUIT settings. I still
haven't figured out how to register additional mac addresses for my
computer. Maybe it should be merged with my.harvard.

* The design of the my.harvard page could benefit from improved behavior
when it comes to selecting class websites. There is inconsistent
behavior in that if the links on the top edge of window are clicked the
user is taken directly to the course web pages while otherwise if we
click the normal links within the window we get a boilerplate summary of
the class rather than the actual website. It might also be beneficial to
be able to put all the class websites in a central hub so that a single
page accesses most if not all of the resouces for all the classes.

* There are two websites related to Harvard that have a bad UI. The
first complaint is rather small, but on the cs50 pset specifications,
website links do not open new tabs no matter how they are clicked (i.e.
ctlr+right click). I'm not sure if this is fixable since the psets are
on pdfs, but it can be annoying to click on a link provided by the psets
(which presumably everyone will want to click on since the links tend to
be helpful/interesting) and then have to manually open a new tab, then
navigate back to the pset URL. Another website that I believe could be
improved is the my.harvard.edu site. Lets say I need to open the site
for cs50 through my.harvard.edu (I forgot to bookmark it :p). I go to
my.harvard.edu, then I must click on how I would like to login. Then I
must actually login. Then I click the 'Courses' tab. Then, assuming I
have CS50 in my course planner, I click cs50. Then an obnoxious new
window opens containing information about the class. Finally I can click
on the course website. Now although cs50 may be a bad example since
google provides an easier alternative, some classes don't appear on
google (like Physical Science 10). Maybe, when the class is clicked on
the course planner, a box drops below the class that contains the
general information including a link to the website. This would remove
the annoying new window that must open. Although, it would be even
better if more of the steps could be removed.

* The my.harvard.edu is a poorly designed website because whenever you
want enter a course's website, you'll have to go through a pop-up window
and then click on the link which will then redirect you to the actual
website. There are too many unnecessary steps in order to access a
courses' website. Rather there should not be a pop-up window and there
should be a link that directly takes the users to the course website.

* Harvard Advising Portal: see grades, student record First, you have to
make your way to the advising portal, which seems like a random page.
Then, the advising portal button isn't that clear. What is it? What does
it have? We don't always remember the one time we were told things
freshman year. I go most of all to the page to see my grades and
academic record, since I know who my advisers are and I don't really
need to worry about placement exams anymore. The buttons are unclear;
they all have some variation of paper and writing utensils, and their
names that pop up when you float the cursor over them aren't that clear
either. On a slow computer, you might have to trial and error click on
these to find what you're looking for, and that takes a lot of loading
time and waiting (especially in Google Chrome on a Mac OS!).
Improvements: I understand that information in the advising portal is
confidential, and requires certain security measures. Thus, I would
allow the portal, but have a button to it on the myharvard page, for
example next to courses on the top bar. It needs to be way more
accessible. on the advising page, I would put a subtitle under the
button, saying something like "see grades, placement exams, advisers,
etc". If not a security issue, I would want to make an interface like
the courses one in my.harvard, where directly from that tab you can
click on documents like student record and see your adviser details.
Then I would relabel the icons so that they were clear (ALWAYS visible
underneath the icon, not just when you float the cursor over - the icons
are not indicative enough of their content alone). "Student Record"
should be "Grades" or "Transcript", and I'm still unclear of what all
the other documents are (my Chrome doesn't want to open them!). "Course
Enrollment" should be "Current Courses", etc.

* The fact that the harvard pre term planning tool is not incorporated
within my.harvard.edu. It doesnot make sense to go to another website to
shop for classes just becuase they are for next year. Shopping on
my.harvard THe fact that one needs to sign in multiple times in the
harvard portal to acsess different area of the harvard website.

* The interface for the pre-term planning tool is awful. It is
complicated, unintuitive, and difficult to use. In order to add courses
to a pre-term plan, you have to go through several steps just to add it
to a list of courses that you can add to the pre-term plan. The method
for searching for courses is also needlessly complicated: instead of
having search options for department and gen-ed the way the my.harvard
course catalog tool does, one has to browse through a list of
departments OR gen-eds before searching for a course title. I'm not sure
exactly how I would fix the difficulty of adding courses to the pre-term
plan (I think the interface needs a complete overhaul), but I would fix
the course search by making it work the way the catalog on my.harvard
works.

* I think courses at my.harvard.edu could be better designed. First of
all, the search feature requires you to be pretty specific in that it
doesn't recognize common abbreviations like "CS50" or "SLS20." Also,
when you click courses on your course planner, a new window always pops
up with the course description and a link to the course website. It
would be less annoying if this new window didn't open, but the
information were still there. Also, when you try to remove a course, it
opens an entirely new page to ask you if you actually want to delete it,
while it seems like you could easily do this in a popup window. I like
using courses.cs50.net much better, but of course, I can't fill out my
study card on that. It would be better if courses.cs50.net and courses
on my.harvard were the same thing, but were more like the former.

* On the my.harvard.edu webpage, clicking on a course will bring you to
a very annoying intermediate page that contains only two links, one to
the the course's q scores and another to the course website. Since there
are other ways to get the Q scores, it would be nice if it didn't take
as many clicks to get to a course website, especially during the
semester. Also, the intermediate page always opens in a new window...
sometimes I'll end up with half a dozen of them left over if I access a
bunch of different course websites. There has to be a better way!! Or
maybe there already is and I just don't know it... =) '

* I personally find the Pre-Term Planning process difficult. Namely, I
can never ever figure out how to get to it. I feel like there are so
many different things called "portals," and all of them look as though
they are bringing you to your PTP, yet, you still get fined because it
turns out you didn't actually fill out your PTP. I think if that were
just integrated into my.harvard.edu as a simple in browser thing we
wouldn't have the amount of fuss we always do trying to force kids to
spend 20 minutes making sure they filled out that survey which, to the
students themselves, seems meaningless.

* The 'Courses' section at my.harvard seems to be a bit user-unfriendly
in that: (1) Every time you add a course to your planner, the search box
disappears and you have to go back and search all over again because the
screen refreshes. Maybe use a different method of adding courses -
something more interactive as to not require refreshing? (2) We have to
click 'compare Q scores' every time to see courses' Q scores
side-by-side. Why not just show them next to each course as per
HarvardCourses? (I can imagine some psychological reasons why, but....
radio button to display/hide Q scores - hide by default, but can enable
them?) (3) Why the popups for the courses on your list? Why not just
implement the same kind of course description opening as when you are
searching for courses? (I have to close each popup, click the next one,
etc. - tedious and takes up screen space) I think the common case would
be a student trying to get to Q scores in addition to the course
description, so if the Courses section were more friendly to that
purpose, it would be a great improvement. This may be why people
migrated over to HarvardCourses.

* I feel like the user interface at my.harvard.edu could be improved. I
primarily use my.harvard to reach the course websites for courses I'm
currently enrolled in. The only way to do this, particularly on a
computer in a lab without history, is to open the my.harvard page,
switch to the courses tab, and select the course's website. While not
horrible, the number of steps could be reduced easily by giving the
websites for particular courses had more intuitive names, instead of the
current names like
http://isites.harvard.edu/icb/icb.do?keyword=krandomnumbers.

* I think the official Harvard website for picking courses is pretty
poorly designed. First of all, when you first log in to my.harvard.edu,
you are defaulted to the most useless part of the website, which is
mostly just weather and Harvard news (so not even real news). After
getting to the courses part, they don't offer you much customization
when you've picked courses to go on your course list and graphic
schedule. One thing that always bugged me was that section times would
be officially listed along with the courses lecture times and yet
section times would not automatically be inserted into the graphic
schedule. This required that you make your own event to cover that. I
would improve the website by better utilizing the information readily
available, i.e. section times which have been officially posted,
allowing students to better plan their schedule for the upcoming
semesters.

* I think that the My.Harvard portal is atrocious. With respect to the
course selection tool, it is slow, cumbersome, and quite limited in
scope. It doesn't allow one to even populate a list of all offered
classes simultaneously, something that I would fix as it requires you to
narrow down your search criteria ex ante. Regarding the main
my.harvard.edu portal page, it is quite difficult to maneuver and to
rearrange. Customization is fairly limited and difficult to achieve. The
campus resources tab is even more cumbersome to navigate. Its horrendous
design/layout aside, the campus resources page does not allow for any
searching, thereby forcing all to scan up and down the entire page.

* The user interface to access the course websites from my.harvard.edu
is rather inefficient. Rather than listing the courses on is currently
enrolled in on the my.harvard.edu homepage one has to click to courses
and then find their class link. Granted the courses on is enrolled in
appears on the top bar to allow easier access, as opposed to scrolling
all the way down to find the course, but the less clicks to access vital
and daily information the better. Also the machine at the lunch line is
rather inefficient and depends solely on the abilities of the staffer
swiping the card. Rather if a sensor were installed that just required
students to "beep" in, the line would go much faster and the hands of
the previous card-swiper would be much less susceptible to carpel tunnel
syndrome. Also the links embedded in the pdfs for the specifications of
the cs50 psets are rather inefficient since instead of opening a new tab
or window for the link the pdf directly goes to the link. This results
in losing your original spot on the pdf as well as having the copy and
paste the link to a new tab then going back to the pdf.

* The myHarvard website is pretty poorly organized. The various parts
that are important of the website are scattered over all the different
parts of the website. A lot of information they give is fairly useless
(e.g. weather, Harvard happenings), and a lot of the information they
give you is already known (e.g. who is in my blocking group). In order
to fix it, I would get rid of a lot of the useless information they hand
us and consolidate it into a single page.

* The Course tab in my.harvard could be improved. Currently, it does not
allow the deletion of Pre-Term Planning (PTP) selected courses. Also,
the popup that occurs when you click on a course in the course planner
is less efficient than the dropdown description for when you're
searching for courses, because you eventually need to close the popups.
I would change it by allowing the deletion of PTP classes and changing
the popup to a dropdown description.

* The course selection section of my.harvard.edu is very poorly
designed. It is overly complex, such that it is most comparable to the
eight steps to get on the train example. While the final result does
provide a great deal of information, it seems that ti takes "clicking"
between so many levels in order to find a course, select it, add it to
your study card, and then to access information about it. Even more
frustrating is removing something from the study card where it cannot
simply be removed but several selections/deselections must be made.

* The my.harvard.edu interface is not user friendly. When navigating
into and out of courses you go back and fourth page by page which is
time and memory consuming.

* I think that the course planner on my.harvard.edu is poorly designed.
It takes many steps to actually get to a courses webpage. In my opinion,
no one really cares about the tiny description of the class when you
first click on the link, and it is on the main age of the website
anyway, so that is just redundant. However, it is very logical and easy
to use and search for very specific things such as time, department,
etc. I would eliminate the the descripton of the course when you click
on the link, and take the user straight to the website., where the
description is always on the main page.

* The course planner tool is absolutely horrible! It allows you to
select courses and aggregate them to a list but there little you can do
after that. The calendar that it is supposed to sync with is not good
for shwing classes that are at the same time and the layout is very
unintuitive. I think it would be much easier, and much simpler, to sync
this calendar with a google calendar.

* I think the plan of study tool on the Harvard Registrar Website is
pretty bad. Its annoying to use and there are too many steps involved.
Basically, you need to navigate away from your plan of study to browse
courses, then store a course you are interested in under some category.
Then, when you navigate back to the plan of study, you need to open one
category at a time, and can only choose from the courses in that
category. It might be nice to have the plan of study tool work like the
mycourses tool on the my.harvard page. LIke we drag and drop courses to
our study card, we should be able to do the same for our plan of study.

* my.harvard.edu is a website with a poor interface. It is very hard to
effectively pick courses based on what we are looking for. Picking
classes for the study card is also inefficient and time consuming. The
course planner also checks every box, so if we want to get rid of one
course, we have to unselect all the other courses. The calendar doesn't
export properly to gcal or ical. The campus resources section is also
poorly organized, because there is a list of stuff in various boxes, but
no organized method of getting to a specific page we want. I would fix
the courses page by modeling courses.cs50.net or qrank.org. The Harvard
website needs to allow the user to narrow down the course list based on
criteria. And as for the campus resources page, maybe have headings at
the top so we can, for example, go to the financial aid section directly
without having to scroll down and find it.

* I would make the my Harvard page more customizable: I almost never use
the main page it brings me to, and instead only ever go to the campus
resources tab. It would be helpful to be able to move the organization
of that website around so that I don't have to click 4 links to get to
the page I want, given that that is the only path I ever take.

* The plan-of-study tool is possibly the least intuitive user interface
of all time! There is an instructional video for its use...any website
that needs an instructional video is not self-explanatory or
straightforward enough to be practical. There are multiple places to
search for courses, bookmark them, categorize them, and then retrieve
them later to make a planning worksheet. I would streamline it to be
more like the current course selection tool on the myharvard.edu page,
where you simply check next to a course and add it to the study
card/shopping list. You could still have multiple planning worksheets,
but add them directly from the list of courses rather than adding the
course from the list to a category, and then from the category to the
worksheet.

* MyHarvard could be more user friendly. It rarely updates classes that
I've dropped or added, it is not easy to add and remove classes from the
planner, there is no warning if two class times coincide, etc.

* I have noticed that to access course information and to generate a
schedule on my.harvard.edu, a student has to first enter the password to
log in, wait for authentication, click on the Courses tab, and then
access the information. To access e-mail, there are that many more
steps. To update one's schedule under the Courses tab, one must click to
add and can add only one activity at a time. Many times, while adding an
activity to the schedule, the website crashes for some reason. During
the first few weeks of school, the site must have crashed at least 7
times before I could add a time slot for "Lunch" or "Work". To fix the
website, bring the Courses tab to the front page under the weather. As
for the scheduling tool, have a button that allows you to add an
activity when you are finished adding another activity. The e-mail tab
should just link to the webmail.college.harvard.edu where the student
enters his or her password to access mail. Better yet, somehow keep trak
of the student's FAS account within the regular account so that when the
Mail tab is clicked, it automatically links to the student's inbox.

* Harvard's online registration process is extremely difficult to
access. The link to online registration is hidden in Campus Resources
and has a very small amount of space allocated to it, even when it is
time to register. The not merely common but ubiquitous case is for a
student to need to register when they arrive at Harvard; therefore, the
link to registration should be obvious. Solutions: a) Email the link to
students once a day for a week until the registration deadline passes b)
Since my.harvard.edu automatically directs you to "My Page," it should
be the top-most link in bold letters on that page c) Keep a copy of the
link on Campus Resources, but similarly make it obvious.

* myharvard difficult to navigate courses and syllabi


OCS
~~~

* One of the worst websites most commonly used by Harvard students is
the OCS website. There is no clear organization or explanation about
each of the different services available to students. The interface is
extremely text heavy, and the user is easily confused by the job search
function because there are several different portals they use for jobs
and internships. They are all separate, and instead of being extremely
accessible, you have to navigate through lots of pages before coming to
a very disorganized page of job listings. The job listings should be
better organized, and there should be a template that standardizes all
entries, so that they are easier to read.

* Harvard's Office of Career Services website. Terribly designed. It's
not user friendly and I can never find anything. Haven't even figured
out how to make an appointment.


PIN
~~~

* Despite its recent update, I find the Harvard PaperCut printing
software (for Mac OS) to be highly inefficient. All of its users
arguably have the same objective--to select an on-campus printer and
print materials out, funds permitting. My main issue is that the
software bundle delegates this seemingly simple task to two applications
and a website. The first piece of software, HUIT PaperCut Printer
Selector, prompts the user to select from a long list of on-campus
printers (without an explicit search function), and stores this within
the computer's System Preferences. The second piece of software,
PaperCut NG, depending on the availability of wifi, displays the user's
balance and must be opened before the user can print anything. If the
user's balance is insufficient, he is redirected to
https://papercut.fas.harvard.edu/user, a website that allows users to
add value to their PaperCut accounts through a credit card or their
termbill. PROPOSED SOLUTION: Create a single unified program that 1)
prompts the user to search for and select a printer, or allow the user
to store a default printer and skip this step. 2) displays the user's
account balance, and allows him to update it through a Harvard PIN
log-in. 3) lets the user select a file to print from the same
application window.

* I think that the Harvard Sectioning tool had a weak user interface.
The site has students log in using information that we don't use
anywhere else (our last names and our ID numbers rather than the
standard ID and PIN page where we likely have already logged in). We
have to find the classes we'd like to section for and must browse
through a long list of courses, rather than having the list prefiltered
using our ID information. Ranking times and ultimately submitting is
unclear and tedious.

* I think the Harvard University online PIN system is poorly designed.
Users not only have to remember their password, but also their obscure
eight digit login ID. I understand that the login ID may be useful so
that only people assigned these ID numbers can have a Harvard account.
However, why can't the PIN system allow the user to change the login ID
to a more memorable username after the first sign-in? A self-imposed
username is much easier to remember than a random grouping of numbers.
Moreover, I find it really inconvenient that after logging in, the PIN
system then goes to a new webpage just to say, " Your login was
successful. You are now being transferred to your application. If you
are not automatically redirected within five seconds, please click
here." I always have the screen an extra time to get to my final
destination, which is an unnecessary step in the process. I would fix
this by getting rid of the page and immediately redirecting to the site
that the user is trying to access.

* Whenever I log into the Harvard PIN system, I'm temporarily taken to a
page that tells me my Login was successful and that I'm being redirected
to my destination, but I have to wait a few moments. I've noticed that
the process can be expedited by just clicking the redirect link so that
I don't have to wait. I understand why a Login response window is
necessary if the Login fails, but not if the Login is successful. I
would change the system so that the user is automatically redirected to
their destination after a successful Login.

* First of all, I really don't like how I have to submit stuff in the
cs50 appliance. I write a lot of my code in Xcode and have to transfer a
lot of stuff back and forth to the appliance just to submit my p-set. (
I still LOVE CS50 though!) As for a more prevalent problem, I'd like to
complain about the PIN login that Harvard uses across it's websites.
It's not universal. For example, If I log in once with my PIN, I want
all the Harvard websites to automatically log me in. This could
accomplished with a cookie in the browser, but I'm not certain if this
is very secure...

* OK, I'm sure there is a good reason for this. But I really wish I
could save my login information with the Harvard PIN System. OK, to
start, it makes me use a ridiculously difficult and long PIN and an
eight digit number that I didn't choose. I must end up logging in
several times a day for different apps, so at least a longer timeout for
that would be nice. And yeah, it doesn't save my login, give me an
option to stay logged in, or even let my browser remember it. (Don't
know how that works). (I feel like they used to have a checkbox that
promised it would save your information for you, but it didn't. At least
they got rid of that empty promise).


PeopleSoft
~~~~~~~~~~

* I have a job on campus, and so I get e-mail notifications that my
paychecks are ready to view. I click to follow the link and then have to
log in through one site. When I log in there, I have to go to another
site. Once there, I have to look in a huge chart/matrix of options to
select the "view paycheck" option. It takes a long time to navigate from
the link to the actual paycheck information. It is not necessarily
explicit what a person must do to log in (because the log in screen is
hidden toward the top of the first site) and once there, you must select
several other options that don't necessarily seem logical, (ex. choosing
'self service' before choosing 'see paycheck'). This happens every time,
and it is definitely not self-explanatory. There are far more steps than
whAT WOULD SEEM NECESSARY. To improve this system, the link in the
e-mail should direct to a log in screen and then directly to the
paycheck information.

* PeopleSoft, the program that Harvard students use to record their
hours for pay checks, could be significantly more efficient. First, the
program makes users choose among a list of menus such as "self-service",
"Harvard Processes," etc., even though it would be simpler to
immediately display all the different choices within each menu (there
are not too many options within each menu to display them all on the
homepage). Then, for example, someone might click "Time Reporting" under
"self-service." Clicking several different things, "Report Times and
Absences," "Time Reporting and Absence Management", etc. all lead to the
same submenu...which has only one choice ...to go to a timesheet.
Instead, there should be one button to click: for example, "Time
Reporting," and this one button should lead immediately to the
timesheet.

* The Harvie/PeopleSoft system through Harvard for time reporting for a
job. First, you have to go to the Harvie webpage, and then find in the
small dropdown menu in the top right corner how to be directed to
PeopleSoft. The dropdown menu is far from obvious, and instead the
website gives a main menu that features information about compensation
and benefits. However, I would guess that these are things that
employees know after seeing them for the first time; however, the spot
that many time-reporting employees need frequently is out of the way.
Besides, this only redirects to the PeopleSoft program, which then takes
5 seconds to redirect you to Harvard's own log-in page. After this, you
are redirected to an almost entirely blank webpage with three small and
non-featured web options: "My Favorite" (which features a My Favorite
menu that is blank and does not explain what a "Favorite" should be),
"Harvard Processes" (which only leads to another page in which you must
click your way 3 more times to a form that alters personal information),
and "Self Service" (the originally non-obvious name for an area that
allows you to access hourly input and past pay stubs). From there, the
Time Reporting menu is just 1 of 9 menus, some of which serve 1-time
purposes or only reference material (this is strange because Time
Reporting is something that an employee will go to weekly, but it's a
rather non-obvious option). From there I have to choose if I am
reporting time or wanting to view past time inputs. When I click on the
"Reporting" option it takes me to a fresh webpage with only 1 option:
"Timesheet". I have to click again to open it. It then has a weekly
array for which you can input 3 sections of hours per day. After the
hours are input, you have to click save to ensure the hours are
submitted. From there, you have to navigate the sidebar if you wish to
see previous time reports or paystubs. The system has an overall logical
progression, but not one that is obvious for the weekly user. I don't
think I have ever clicked on most of the other menus, but I still have
to follow the flow into the menus with useless menus. I think this could
ultimately be done in much fewer steps: From the initial Harvie page, it
could feature a small "Username/Password" box which, when entered, would
direct the user immediately to PeopleSoft. From there, the menu with
"Self Service" could also simply have a "Time Reporting" option, which
the use could click to find the array with per day hourly inputs. This
would cut down on quite a few clicks and wait times, and emphasize
aspects that a common user would access more than one or two times.
Also, the aesthetics could be better, but this is rather subjective. It
certainly doesn't highlight or center the things that the user should
pay attention to.

* Harvard's Peoplesoft interface, especially for dorm crew workers. I
want to see my paycheck, and have to follow far too many steps to do so,
following far to many links. Going from http://harvie.harvard.edu/ =>
Peoplesoft => Being Redirected => Clicking Self-Service =>Payroll and
Compensation => View Paycheck, is a bit excessive. I'd make a more
direct link to viewing the damn paycheck.

* PeopleSoft is terrible! That's the website I use to view my paychecks
and employment information. When I log into the website, the name of the
page I see first is "Employee-facing registry content." What does that
even MEAN? There is nothing on the homepage. There are tiny links in the
left-hand menu. Two of them are called "Harvard Processes" and "Self
Service." Again, who talks like that? The tab called "Harvard Processes"
has only one subtab, "Entry/Forms," which has only one subsubtab,
"Personal Data Change Form," which turns out NOT to be the place I go in
order to, you know, change my personal data (that's under "Self Service
-> Personal Information -> Personal Information Summary"). I have no
idea what the Personal Data Change Form is for because the instructions
say "Enter any information you have and click Search," which might be
the most uninformative set of instructions I've ever read. I think when
I log into PeopleSoft, there should be a giant button that says "VIEW
YOUR PAYCHECK," and another giant button that says "UPDATE YOUR PERSONAL
INFORMATION." It shouldn't be that hard because right now there's just a
bunch of blank white space.

* The peoplesoft system for harvard employees is not the friendliest of
user faces. There is no real way to see if direct deposit is working or
set up. It just displays what you entered, but never says its actually
been confirmed.

* I system whose user interface I feel is poorly designed is the
PeopleSoft system for Harvard employees. I have an account as I work for
Dorm Crew, and every time I log in, I'm not quite sure where things are.
In my opinion, first of all the visual arrangement of things does not
emphasize what is logically more important to the average user, and
second of all, the menu items which help to navigate through the various
sections have confusing and not very accurate titles. I do not know much
about the system, but I would suggest making it clearer where the
important sections the the average user are.


Plan-of-Study Tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* With all due respect, the current system of study-cards could be
improved in my opinion. It was difficult to round up signatures from
various teachers and academic advisors during the time span of a couple
days, especially since professors are always busy and students are still
deciding what classes to take. I would suggest a fully online approach,
where students can submit their schedules online, and professors can
give permissions as needed. This would fix many problems of running
around trying to find people, which detracts from students' time to meet
new people or think about their classes (or, for that matter, study).

* The Concentration planning tool, which upperclassmen (especially
Sophomores) use to map out their concentration requirements and
ultimately help them decide which concentration to choose. It was very
tedious and difficult to use the website. It also took forever to load!
In order to fill up the courses and requirements, the user first has to
search for the courses, group them into separate classes and then put
them into the correct slots. The website could be improved with a user
interface much like the cs50 course shopping tool, which requires the
user to check the boxes which apply. It would also help if the user
could see which semesters (Fall / Spring) the courses are being offered.

* The concentration declaration site is really inefficient. I'm not sure
why it is so un-user-friendly. It takes multiple steps to add a class to
the planner. Why can't you just look stuff up on cs50 courses and add
them directly to whichever semester you want? It would also be much
better if it would automatically go through and check which of the
requirements (both Gen Ed and concentration) have been completed.

* Harvard needs a better solution to concentration guidelines. I have
spent nearly as long as a cs50 pset demands in putting together a list
of classes that I need to take for engineering. Even now, after
consulting with others in the field, I am still unsure of how some of
the ideas are merited. Granted, this could be more of a department
issue, but as a sophomore with concentration declarations coming up, I
hear many students talking about how they have no idea what classes are
required. This may not so much me a website interface issue, but more of
a "why doesn't this exist in a centralized and clear location" issue.

* The website we had to deal with while declaring our major (when you
wrote down your 4 year plan) was SUCH a pain. Before even going into
detail, I have to say that it hardly even worked. For one thing, there
was a side bar with subfields you can click on and supposedly the
classes in that category were supposed to load. You couldn't even click
on it, so you had to search all your classes manually. The website was
gruesomely slow. I remember also having to reset something entirely
every time I wanted to add or subtract a class. Perhaps it was my cache
of classes that I selected (I don't remember and don't have access to
the site anymore) but it was extremely slow and you had to refresh at a
very basic step in the course planning process. I can't believe that the
entire class had to use this website and it was so buggy. Yes, designing
your classes for four years takes time, but it took far too long to do
such a basic task because of the interface itself. The major declaration
process was a very stressful time, and this made it worse. Sorry to be
so extreme! But this is how I felt!

* The Sophomore concentration planning website. To add courses to one's
plan, one first must create groups, add courses to this group and add
classes from the group to the plan. On top of this circuitous ordeal,
when "browsing courses", if you search twice in a row, it doesn't
automatically delete the first search specification and only looks for
courses that meet both specifications - usually not what you want!

* I always thought the Student Planning Portal was a great idea. To
start, it's extremely confusing trying to navigate this site. There are
links on the top and links on the side bar so it feels like too much is
going on. Specifically, I really like the idea of the Plan of Study page
because it allows you to map out all of the courses you will take to
figure out how you will complete all of your requirements. In order to
use this feature though, it forces you to create a worksheet (which
forces you to choose a concentration). I feel like this step is
unnecessary and discourages people from using this planning tool. Also,
it takes forever to add in a single course. One has to go to the Browse
Courses page, navigate through the courses to find a course you want (I
also hate how when browsing courses, you have to "clear" the search or
else you simply add onto your previous search), add it into a tag
(another unnecessary step), select that tag in the plan of study page,
and then finally have the option of adding a single course to your
actual plan of study. I would improve this by allowing users to search
for the courses on one part of the screen while viewing the plan of
study on the other half of the screen (to avoid having to go back and
forth between pages). I would get rid of the tagging idea altogether
because it is simply unnecessary. And if it were possible (i.e. through
flash/java/or something), I would allow the courses to be dynamic so
that one could move courses (after adding them) by simply clicking and
moving them around (rather than deleting and going through a long
process of adding). I'm sure this "plan of study" page could be
incorporated into courses.cs50.net somehow.

* The Harvard Student Planning Portal is impossible to use. 1) To create
a planning worksheet, you have to first click on the "Create Planning
Worksheet" tab. Putting this functionality in a tab is completely
counterintuitive. When you click on this tab, two forms appear: one for
switching concentrations and another for keeping the same
concentrations. Two forms on one page, with two "submit" buttons, is
ridiculous. There should be a button to create a planning worksheet,
followed by a friendly, step-by-step form. 2) The procedure for actually
creating a planning worksheet is way more tedious than it should be. To
add a class to your worksheet, you have to switch to the "Browse
Courses" tab, create a new tag, search for the class you want, tag it,
go back to the "Create Planning Worksheet" tab, select the tag, and
finally add the class where you want it (at least 6 steps, on two
different pages). You should be able to search for classes and add them
to your worksheet all on the same page, at the very least. 2) Searching
for a class is much more difficult than it should be. If I simply search
for "cs50", nothing comes up. If I then search for "computer science", I
realize I have to first press the "Clear search" button and then type in
my search again. The search tool should be able to parse basic
abbreviations like "CS" or "MCB"

* The plan of study tool offered by Harvard is horrendous. Although I
haven't used it in a while from what I remember it was extremely
difficult to navigate and get it to cooperate with your wishes. You have
to search classes one a different page then put them into ridiculous
categories. It does not have a user friendly interface at all. It took
me a few hours just to figure out how to use the plan of study tool. It
really is a poor tool. To fix it I would have a list of courses you can
search (similar to courses.cs50) on the left and then your empty
semesters in the middle and finally requirements for your selected
concentration on the far right. You should be able to drag a class into
an open semester slot and than it will cross off a requirement, if that
class fulfilled one.

* The Harvard "Plan of Study" tool is not intuitive to use. It is not
obvious how the user can delete a "Planning Worksheet" that he or she
does not like. On the left hand side fo the screen, it is not
immediately clear what "tags" are used for. The actual planning
worksheet that the user is working on is so big that it is not easy to
understand everything that is going on. The actual planning worksheets
should be smaller so that the user can see more of the worksheet at one
time.

* The plan of study appliance on the Registrar's office is more
difficult than it needs to be. In order to add a course to a certain
semester, I have to search for the course, add it to a grouping, return
to the plan of study, and add it to a certain semester. It would be nice
to be able to find a course and add it to any given semester from that
course browsing menu.

* The student planning portal on Harvard's registrar's office website is
extremely difficult to use due to poor design. It forces you to select
and tag courses you want to add to your plan of study in a separate step
than actually adding them, which is extremely frustrating since you
often need to go back and forth between these two interfaces. It also
forces you to categorize these courses into separate tabs, and when
you're adding them to your form you need to click on the tab before you
can select a tab within it, adding a separate step compared to if they
allowed you to view/select courses from a single screen. It also makes
you search for courses within their department as opposed to being able
to search from a list of all offered courses. The procedure for
searching for, selecting, labeling, and adding a class to the plan of
study are also not well indicated; it is easy to get confused along the
way, and it is not always clearly visible how to get to the next step.
It would be highly preferable to allow the user to search for courses
(from a list of ALL courses). And instead of needing to select and tag
them then re-find them later, it would be great to be able to DRAG a
course once you've found it directly onto a compressed version your plan
of study (which doesn't need much space on the page!). A separate view
of this plan of study could show more details, but for the purposes of
adding to it, search-and-add would be a huge improvement.

* The most memorably bad experience I've had with a website is when I
tried to complete my plan of study in my sophomore year on the Harvard
registrar website. It is the most user-unfriendly interface I have ever
encountered. In order to add courses from the catalog to the plan, you
must navigate back and forth between different webpages, first searching
for a course in one tab, adding it to a category of graduation
requirement (gen ed, concentration requirement, secondary, etc.), then
navigating back to the plan of study page and adding them one by one. To
make matters worse, these counter-intuitive steps are not explained from
the outset, therefore the user must figure it out for him/herself by
trial and error. This extremely inefficient workflow could easily be
solved if we were to create an interface that combines the CS50
harvardcourses app with something like an email labeling algorithm. As
you search for courses, you can apply a label to a selected course and,
in the same interface, add that selection to the plan of study, similar
to checking the "courses I'm shopping" option.

* The website that Harvard uses for Plans of Study is one of the most
counter-intuitive websites I have ever used. It isn't aesthetically
pleasing, but that is not its worst problem. The search function is
unreliable, and because it works differently than searches on any other
website, it can be confusing to people who have never used it before. If
you search for something that gets too many hits, there's no way to
browse through all of those without narrowing it down again with another
search. Also, this website provides no easy way to go from browsing for
courses to adding it to one of your planning worksheets. Instead, you
have to go through this long process of adding a course to a tag and
then adding it to the planning worksheet after switching to a new tab on
the page. The website courses.cs50.net is much more user-friendly and
even fun to use, and if it weren't for the fact that we are required to
fill out our Plans of Study using the Harvard page, I would definitely
use the CS50 site for all of my course-browsing needs.

* I remember when I was doing the plan of study last year the interface
was particularly poorly designed. Each action to add a course involved
somewhere between 4 and 6 different drop-down menus, I think. Honestly,
if something like that requires an instructional video then it's being
done wrong. I would try to streamline the search function for courses
and add an option to add straight from the course search to a given
semester, instead of forcing the student to go find course => add course
to some sort of list => go back to plan of study page => select list =>
find semester => find course on list in semester => add course. Just
reduce the number of page changes in general. I'll try to keep an eye
out for more.

* The harvard student plan of study is needlessly complex and woefully
underexplained on the site. Some of the myriad problems include: - the
classes do not have likely hours of class provided - no ability to
compare between multiple worksheets - no concentration-specific
requirement fulfillment check - adding classes is a pain, requiring
first putting classes in a folder of similar classes, then adding from
folder to worksheet - no direct add option

* I think that Harvard's Plan of Study tool is extremely poorly
designed. There are so many tabs at the top of the website, as well as
many dropdown menus along the left side that make it extremely
confusing. The poor design is evident simply by virtue of having to
watch a video on how to use the tool and navigate through the website.
While I have no idea how I would do this, my suggestion for a fix is to
implement some sort of drag and drop feature, as well as an automatic
classification of classes (if classes can count across multiple
disciplines, simply list them twice). Another feature that might be nice
would be to select one concentration and have all the eligible courses
show up so you don't have to deal with classes that don't apply to your
degree.

* Buggy: Harvard’s Plan of Study Tool. The entire design is incredibly
inefficient and unintuitive. First bug: You have to first create these
ridiculous “shopping carts” of courses called “tags”. Filling the
shopping car with courses is fine, but the tags have a maximum course
limit of 50! Seriously?! That means that you need to create MULTIPLE
shopping carts just to cover all the courses in your department of major
that you want to choose from! Talk about a 20-step process. Second bug:
Another design problem is with how you search for courses to add to the
tag. You search by keywords that may occur in course
title/professor/etc., but then, these keywords are attached to future
searches. If you want to do a new search, you have to untag previous
keywords from previous searches. Third Bug: You can’t delete shopping
carts. SERIOUSLY? Also there is a 10 second lag time between clicks.
Fourth Bug: After creating filled tags, you have to go to a DIFFERENT
page to fill your plan of study. Then you have to add courses one at a
time, switching between different shopping carts, depending on user’s
organization of carts. Going from card to cart as you fill in courses
for each year. So inefficient. Fifth Bug: There is no save button for
plan of study. That means if you don't completely finish it, all your
work is lost if you want to come back.

* I don't like Harvard's course selection thing. I use HarvardCourses to
look things up, but to put things in certain semesters I need to use the
planning tool, which has an unwieldy system of tags (only a limited
number). I wish they would create pre-set tags/categories like Societies
of the World. Or you could just make HarvardCourses include plan of
study stuff.

* The Plan of Study portal is really difficult to use. To add a course
to your plan of study you have to go through the process of searching
for the class, then tagging it (which I'm not even sure why this step is
included), and then selecting it from a drop down menu. To do this for
every course I anticipate taking through the rest of my time here seems
like it will be a more difficult task than it needs to be. Furthermore,
very little instruction is given on how to even use the portal.

* The plan of study website is rather subpar. It requires too many
screen changes and doesn't have a great flow. For a user to make just
one change it requires several actions. It would be better if it allowed
for searching/selecting and submitting to be done on one screen. The
hierarchy of pages just doesn't feel natural.

* The plan of study tool is incredibly bad. It requires the use of
several different interfaces that cannot be open at the same time.
Courses must be searched for in a very unforgiving search function then
tagged before you can even look at them in your plan of study page and
add them to a specific semester. Making this tool have similar
functionality to the CS50 course selection/shopping tool would be great.
That interface is functional, the search is fast, and it is easy to
select courses and add them.

* Harvard's plan of study website. The process of selecting courses that
may interest me and then adding them to my plan of study takes an
unreasonably large number of steps. Besides, comparing classes is very
hard and the function of tagging them for later use is not very
user-friendly. I will first of all reduce the large number of drop-down
menus (for tagging etc.). One way I hope to improve the website is by
allowing dragging and dropping the names of classes into the relevant
tags/groups.

* The Student Planning Portal website is really difficult to work with.
Mostly, when you're searching for courses you type in, say "Engineering
Sciences" and a window fills with all ES/AM classes you can take. Then
if next you want to search language classes you type "Spanish" and you
find that apparently no Spanish courses exist! It is unclear when you
type "Spanish" into the "Course Title" section of the website that you
are actually searching for Spanish classes within the results of your
Engineering Sciences search. When I was first working with this I made
this mistake over and over again and forgot to "Clear Search" each time
I was searching for an unrelated course. In all honestly, I feel like
the "Clear Search" button shouldn't be necessary and the computer should
assume that every search is a new search.

* I think Harvard's Student Planning Portal could be better designed in
a few specific areas. Overall it is a very useful site for searching
courses and making a course plan for one's entire Harvard career, but it
has a couple of frustrating flaws. The first is fairly general. The site
is not very intuitive, as evidenced by the extensive video tutorial each
new student is strongly encouraged to watch before beginning. An example
is when you browse courses with the intention of adding a few to your
course plan table. For the indecisive planner, the site's way of
allowing the grouping of courses under user-specified tags is
beautifully done, and when you finally decide which of the courses from
that tag group you'd like to take, it is easy to open the tag group from
the course plan page and insert a course to the table. However, I'd
imagine it's pretty common to find a course through "browse courses" and
know from the info given that the course belongs in your plan of study.
If this is the case, the only way to add it to the plan is to create a
tag (or at least add it to an existing tag) whether it's the only course
of its kind you'll ever take or not, and then travel to the course plan
page, select the tag group, and finally add the course. I would
certainly devise a way to send the course from "browse courses" to a
particular semester in the plan with fewer steps. Perhaps, in the same
place you find the button that adds a checked course to a tag group,
there could be a button that single-handedly sends the course to a
particular semester on the course plan table. The second that comes to
mind is very specific - when using the browse courses tab, each search
result (course title) expands to give you every bit of important
information you would likely want to know when planning imminent/future
semesters, including the time of day/days of the week at which it's
offered, if it's available. However, a if you view your proposed course
plan and wish to compare the courses you've tabled within a particular
semester and make sure they all fit, the links to each course's info do
not provide the time of day/days of the week of the course! In order to
ensure that your courses do not overlap with one another, you must go
back to the "browse courses" page and search for each course to bring up
the inclusive info once more. I pretty sure that any course info link on
the site (such as from viewing a tag group at any point) that does not
come directly through "browse courses" will be missing this critical
planning info. I would definitely make sure that every link to course
info would bring up the same complete listing.

* The Harvard "Plan of Study" tool is extremely difficult to use. It
requires users to remember where they stored certain courses that they
may or may not finally enter into their plan of study, and click many
more times than necessary to find, store, and retrieve a desired course.
If possible, I would make a simple floating window that could store
desired courses. The window and slots in the user's plan of study would
be able to store courses simply by dragging from a list.

* One would imagine that if a user interface is poorly designed, it
should lose customers by the free market principle. Alas, it is not so
for the monopolistic Harvard registrar. Our current plan of study tool
is the most hideously designed tool for its purpose that I can think of,
and what makes it that much worse is that its labyrinthine planning
process is a required punishment for every student, regardless of his or
her Ad Board status. Let us forgive its unpleasant aesthetics for a
moment and merely talk about design. Suppose I decide I want to change
concentrations. I first must click on a tab to make a new plan. To add
courses to this plan, I can't just add courses; first I need to go to
another tab and use a clumsy search tool to add courses to lists. But I
can't have too many courses on a list! And every time I want to add a
new course I have to refresh the page with a new search. Once I finally
think I've made enough lists with enough courses, I have to navigate
over to a different tab, where adding courses from my lists is another
multiple-click process for each course. And if I think of another course
I want to add, it's back to the other tab to search for that course and
add it to a list. Then it's up to you to allocate GenEd credits. All in
all the system is so atrocious that I chose to wait to fill it out until
I was on pain medication while recovering from wisdom tooth surgery. Why
not use a one-page streamlined system in which you can type courses
directly in to each semester and it will dynamically find them (as in
Facebook's search bar), and use an algorithm that automatically
allocates GenEd credits? Then all you have to do is type out your 32
courses, save, and be done.

* The plan of study tool in the Harvard Advising Programs Website feels
poorly designed to me. In order to add a course to my plan, I have to
first create a tag, search for the course, add that tag, return to the
plan of study, click on the tag, and then select the course from a drop
down menu. It would be much easier if the user could to simply type in
the course name. I also cannot find a way to change the title of a plan
I have created. Perhaps I am not using the tool correctly, but perhaps
the tool could be improved so that if there is an easier way to add
courses, it is more obvious to the user.

* I've encountered considerable frustration with the Harvard Registrar
Student Planning Portal website due to my edge-case not being accounted
for. (I will be graduating at the end of fall 2012 and I have taken a
Harvard summer school case; the website thus thinks I have eight terms
(incorrectly classifying the summer school class as a fall term when I
was on leave and discounting the final fall term), and thus refuses to
allow me to submit course information for my final term.) Despite
contacting the website administer, this bug still hasn't been fixed for
all my planning sheets; a temporary work-around was implemented for one
of them, but not the one I've actually ended up using (the straight
Neurobio track). The 'Browse' function could be improved as well; search
results for 'mcb 80' will include information for courses outside the
mcb department that have '80' in their title. Additional searches will
assume that one wants to add an 'AND' specification to the previous
search(es), which is highly annoying; I'd prefer the default to be
'clear search' and have an additional button for refining the search
instead of the other way around. There are several other design features
that I'd be happy to complain about, but those are the major ones, and
unfortunately I'm running out of time to submit this form.


Pre-Term Planning Tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* I think the Harvard pre-term planning tool/website is very poorly
implemented. It is frustrating the many steps you have to go through to
add courses. First, you have to search courses and add them to lists.
Then you have to return to the main page and add courses from your
lists. It just seems very inefficient to have to select courses twice.
It also does not lend itself to choosing courses as you go since once
you are in the main page where you are actually adding courses to your
pre-term plan, you have exit that page to add more courses to your list.
This is particularly a problem when you are looking for courses that
meet certain requirements. Unless you remember which requirement the
course meets, you must exit the main page, research the course, find out
this information, add it to a list, return to the main page, and FINALLY
add it to your pre-term planning worksheet. I would fix it by making it
quicker and easier to add courses. Students should be able to look at
courses and automatically add them to their plan without having to
create a list. They could still be on different pages but once courses
are selected, you would not have to go through a separate step to
actually add them. It could simulate a shopping experience where
clicking on the course would add it to your shopping basket (ie. the
pre-term planning worksheet). I also think it would be useful if it
automatically highlighted the requirements it can meet. I understand
that if it meets multiple requirements the student must choose which one
they want to apply it to but having eligible requirements highlighted
would make the process faster.

* Student Planing Portal is probably the most counter intuitive
interface I had to work with. The entire thing is convoluted. For
example if you delete 1 search item and type another it searches for
both instead of only for the last one. You have to start a new search to
search for something else. The left hand menu NEVER works the way it you
would think it should, and over the course of time I just opted for not
using it altogether. The tags may be helpful, but as of now when they
are obligatory, they just make the entire thing slower. In a gist, the
site would definitely benefit from a more user friendly design. Going
over the site again, I see some improvements have been made, so my
critique may be a little outdated. The tag thing though, still exists.
It would be easier if one could add courses to a term not just to a tag.

* The Student Planning Portal on the Registrar's website ("Plan of
Study" and "Pre-term Planning" tools ) is quite unintuitive and
frustrating. The function to "Browse/Tag courses" is unclear although
you are told it is to "identify them later". Most annoying is that once
you search for a particular term, all future searches are conducted
within the confines of previously searched for terms. For example, if I
search for "CS 50" and then once complete search for "Ec10", the search
path will only look for courses that contain "Ec10" within those courses
that appear within the "CS 50" search. In order to start a new search
without the previously searched for terms, you must click a button that
says "Clear Search", but this is by no means obvious. In addition, the
search tool is quite bad. Searching for "CS 50" yields results for all
courses that have "50" in the title, including Culture and Belief,
English, French, German, Gov, Italian, Spanish, and VES 50. Also, the
user interface of the tool is very amateurish and in general not set up
in an intuitive manner; clicking on a button to move to a different part
of the tool often changes all of the menu buttons on the side,
disrupting any continuity between different tools within the Portal.

* Harvard pre-term plan tool. It's too challenging to find the courses
you want and check what you have. Not only that, it's too tough to
figure out if you submitted it or not since the submit button is not
very clear.

* Harvard's pre-term planning website suffers from some glaring design
flaws. Though it might seem nice at first how everything is
compartmentalized into their own tabs, this structure proves more
frustrating than anything else. Transitioning between tabs is a hassle,
and it is inconvenient to not be able to add courses directly to a plan
of study. Though instructions are provided, the shifting back and forth
can become tiring and is not that intuitive. The easiest fix would be to
allow students to add courses directly to their plan of study.
Additional improvements could come with eliminating the sidebar as its
main purpose is to make information from one tab available to the user
when he is on another tab, suggesting that the sidebar has no
stand-alone function and is just an intermediate.

* The pre-term planning tool is not well-made because it sends the user
to many different pages to just enter in one course. It's also really
hard to find certain courses. If the pre-term planning tool was set-up
similar to the courses.cs50.net website, it would be a lot easier to
enter in the courses for pre-term planning. We could just type in the
course names, searching for them and entering them into the tool.

* Harvard's pre-term planning tool is a joke. In order to add a course
to one of your upcoming semesters, you have to (as far as I've
discovered because there are no good instructions) search for that
course by department, add it to a specific "tag" that you've created
(which by the way you can't add more courses to later) and then go to
your schedule page, select one of the tags, and then select the course
you want to add. not to mention the site is very slow and since you have
to click through so many pages the process takes forever. i think
courses.cs50.net is a thousand times better interface and if preterm
planning could be incorporated into that everyone would be better off.

* Pre-Term Planning / Plan of Study Site It's really hard to navigate
because there are a lot of tabs, and a lot of worksheets that you
supposedly need to work on before you can start setting a plan. In order
to search for classes, you have to use the internal search system which
kind of doesn't clear your search parameters every time you want to do a
new search. Also, in the planning tool, it doesn't automatically know
which classes count for which gen-ed etc or concentration requirement. I
think it'd be nice if it could autofill some of these so we know which
classes we need or don't need without specifically looking for them.

* The pre-term planning tool is horrible. You have to go through a lot
of steps to add a class (tagging, etc.) or even to search for it. I
would make it more like the cs50 courses website...searchable and easy
to add classes to your list.

* Harvard's pre-term planning is TERRIBLE. It is really confusing and
takes more than common sense. The biggest problem is that it forces far
too many steps and doesn't allow for easy revisions. Basically, you have
to create "lists" of your potential pre-term planning courses before you
can actually put them on your planning worksheet. To do this, there is a
TERRIBLE search program within each Harvard department - and it's very
hard to switch between departments. Only from these lists can you fill
out the worksheet. You have to go through all the steps again just to
add one new class. I would switch this by making classes much easier to
find and by taking out the "list" middleman. Also, Harvard's online Q is
pretty awful. There is no way to search for a class, you have to guess
what semester it might have been taken in and look every time. Also,
every time you look at another class, you have to scroll all the way
down and click on the department and then scroll down some more.
Basically, you should be able to search by course, prof, semester,
rating, etc. (essentially - I would make it look almost exactly like the
Q on the CS50 course shopping website!)

* One website whose interface or programming I feel is badly designed is
the current website for Pre-Term planning. Why? : For some reason or
another, it's search algorithm seems to be seriously flawed (at least
last time I used it). When you search for a course using fairly
straightforward and specific search terms, you end up with a list of a
hundred or so results, with the course you want nowhere near the top of
the results (or nowhere at all) and instead just a lot of courses that
seem to have nothing to do with what you searched. How might I approach
solving this issue: come up with a better/more efficient/more effect
search/sort algorithm, maybe using linked lists or trees.

* Harvard's pre-term planning and plan of concentration tools. They're
huge hassles to navigate: you have to add classes you're interested in
or planning to take first to a calendar on one page, then to a form on
another page. The first time I used it, I spent at least twenty minutes
just trying to figure out how it worked. Those websites are really not
intuitive at all.

* The Pre-Term Planning tool is the most non-intuitive, inefficient, and
even useless user interface I have ever come across. What is miraculous
is the amount of time it took Harvard students to even figure out how
the program actually functioned. Clearly a red flag that this is a
program that is not self-explanatory. For reasons unbeknownst to the
undergraduate population, you have to add every class to some "tag" that
you create yourself (oftentimes forgetting what classes you have labeled
where) in order to even think about trying to add it to your PTP final
list. None of the classes are easily searchable by teacher, time, Q
score, or anything useful. The PTP tool doesn't even check to make sure
that your entry is valid, like that two classes are at the same time,
you're taking 7 classes, or even if you are taking two GenEds that only
fulfill the same requirement. The steps just to add a single class to
your final list are ridiculous: you have to search the class by looking
through the entire list offered by that single department, create a tag,
add it to that tag, go back to the home page, and then select the tag,
and finally add it to your final list. I would fix it by getting rid of
the idea of tags already. The program should be able to automatically
label every class you take into "concentration requirements"
"concentration electives" "Gen Ed" "secondary" and "electives." The
final list should check to make sure you haven't listed the same class
twice, that warns you if you plan to take 5 or more classes, and checks
for time conflicts.

* I'm sure this is a common response but the student planning portal
interface could use a lot of work. I feel that this tool has a lot of
potential and could be very useful for all students for comparing
different concentrations, ensuring one meets all the gen ed
requirements, etc. However, currently this tool is dysfunctional; there
are way too many intermittent steps to perform an action as simple as
adding a course to an upcoming semester and the tool is a far cry from
self-explanatory. To improve the planning tool I would suggest using a
single interface with an academic calendar as the centrepiece and two
column lists on one side. One list would display all the requirements
for the concentration you choose on a drop-down box; the second would
allow you to browse or search the course catalogue much like
HarvardCourses. The user would simply drag and drop classes into the
calendar and a simple ticker would keep track of the number of
requirements completed/uncompleted. When finished the user could either
submit for pre-term planning (sending the following semester's data
only) or for plan of study (sending the entire calendar). There would be
no "worksheets", no "tags", and no tabs.

* Many of Harvard's websites are very poorly designed (e.g., Pre-Term
Planning / Plan of Study). They are very confusing, take many steps to
get to any other page, are very non-intuitive. To fix it, take a large
picture view of what exactly is needed and what isn't -- the flow of
data structures could be a lot better.

* pre-term planning tool and student planning portal are such a pain to
use. I really don't even know how to describe the workflow because after
going on it several times I still have to play around with it looking
for things. You apparently have to browse courses first, save them
somehow using tags, and go back to pre-term planning page and get the
courses saved from the tags. I don't know if there's a easier way go
about doing it, but it always takes me really long to get all my tagging
correct and transfer the classes i picked into pre-term planning
worksheet. same goes for planing worksheet and plan of study. It would
be easier if it can be linked to course.cs50 and when we look up courses
we can add them to any semesters in the following years the student is
at harvard...so have 8 semester sidebar that can be opened. and have a
check list of gen ed and concentration classes (depending on student's
concentration) based on student info that user can pull up. also when
pre term planning tool opens, activate a button next to the upcoming
semester and enables student to just submit what they added from
course.cs50 to their semester. there are a lot of things that would all
make the site better.

* The pre-term planning website, and the Student Planning Portal in
general, is poorly designed. In order to fill out the PTP, you must
first browse courses, then either create a tag or add the course to a
previous tag. From there, you are then able to add the course to your
Pre-Term Planning. Also, when you are searching for multiple courses,
you must first "Clear Search" before beginning your next search.
Otherwise, the new search entry simply refines your previous search. I
think starting a new search is more common and should be the default.

* The plan of study tool (used for pre-term planning, and designing a
plan of study) is by FAR the worst Harvard IT experience I have ever
had, including the times when the computers in the science center won't
turn on. First, it's very unclear which part is even the one we should
use in order to create a new plan of study, or pre-term planning. There
are many different options. Solution: triage the users who are there for
pre-term planning vs plan of study vs 'something else' (which is,
itself, a joke--the interface is so bad that NOBODY uses it for anything
other than the parts that are mandatory). Next problem: In order to add
a course to planning, we have to go to one part of the tool (where we
can search for courses), and then constructs lists of courses. Then, we
have to go back to a separate part of the tool, click on the list we
have just created, click the course within the list, and then go to the
semester we are trying to modify, click on a dropdown menu, and select
the course from the list we created. Then, we have to save the changes.
I think if we want to print out what we'd just done (like, to get it
signed by advisors), we then have to go to a totally separate part of
the interface, and there are several more steps. Solution: abolish this
system altogether, and instead just add ONE button to the current course
planning tool. Have a button called 'add to pre-term planning' along
side the 'add to study card'. Problem solved. I don't know anyone who
likes the interface or thinks it's efficient. In fact, it would probably
be easier to chisel my course planning into a large rock, haul it up to
the Yard, and throw it in the window of University Hall.

* I think Harvard’s pre-term planning tool is poorly designed. There are
several reasons. For one, it assumes that you are only going to plan on
taking courses which you have already assigned to a “worksheet”, so in
that sense it doesn’t account well for people changing their plans,
which is a very common case. A sort of analogy would be if iTunes would
let you add songs to a playlist only if that song were already on
another “master playlist”. It is annoying that I have to add courses to
some planning worksheet before I can just add them to the pre-term
planning sheet. It is difficult to add a random class (or else difficult
to navigate the page and see how it’s done). Furthermore, some of the
functionality, such as the way you can add different “tags” to classes,
does not make clear sense, and seems useless. I would fix pre-term
planning by making all classes much more searchable, perhaps by
integrating it with all of the other course information, like the course
webpage and the q-guide. I would also see, rather than fragmented
worksheets, just two simple options for “starred” classes that seem
interesting, and a button to add a class to your PTP sheet.

* The pre-term planning tool is very hard to navigate! Searching for
courses is very difficult. It isn't clear that every search is narrowing
your current selection rather than searching again, and adding courses
themselves isn't clear.

* The Preterm planning tool and course of study tool, while a good idea,
is awful. The interface is bad, its hard to use, redundant and
cluttered. It requires way to many steps to pick or view a class, to see
what requirements you have filled with your past courses etc. Its just
bad.

* The Pre-Term Planning website has a very convoluted workflow. You
can't browse courses and add them directly to the planning worksheet you
would like them to go to. Instead you must "tag" them under a tag that
you have to figure out how to make, and them import the class into the
worksheet by clicking on the tag and choosing the courses within. This
was incredibly confusing to me a first, and what should have been a
quick and easy, point and click process because a frustrating effort.
There are many ways to fix this. The easiest way I can think of is to
include buttons under each class that add that class to whichever
worksheet (Plan of Study, Pre-Term Planning etc) you want. This browse
page should be the homepage, and then the tabs of sidebar can get you to
the worksheets that you have added classes to. This would reduce the
whole process to about 3-5 steps, instead of having 3-5 steps just to
add each individual class.

* Harvard's Preterm Planning portal is extremely clunky. It is very hard
to navigate between pages you want to get to, and it takes more effort
than needed. I do not remember the exact specifications of the portal,
as I only use it twice a year, however I do remember being very
frustrated by it. The design of how to choose and store classes you want
is very inelegant and requires one to watch a training video.

* the pre-term planning tool, at Harvard's advising portal, is very
inconvenient to use. Especially, selecting courses and saving them for
reference later is a very cumbersome job, for which a simple history tab
could have solved the problem quickly. A drag-and-drop interface would
have been very helpful for students to pick out courses, store them in a
database, and fetch them when they open up their pre-term planning sheet
and try to fill the slots up with the courses from the database.

* The pre-term planning tool is very confusing. For some reason, to add
classes to a schedule, one has to put classes on a slate of sorts and
then put that slate onto the actual pre-term planning list. This two
step process is unnecessary because the purpose of the tool is for
someone to quickly input the four classes they want to take, not create
planning worksheets. Also since every student has to use it every
semester, the people who are less technically inclined don't understand
why it is so difficult. I believe that if a website needs a 2 minutes
instructional video on how to use it, then there is something inherently
wrong with the design. I would fix it by implementing a simple search
feature where each course then has an "Add to Pre-Term Planning list"
button. We already have Harvard courses and the Q guide to research the
courses, the PTP site is simply just a place to put our decisions so it
should only have course names. Once the user creates a PTP list, the
website should also verify that it has 4 courses on it before it is
submitted. This would make it a much simpler and more intuitive website.

* Harvard's preterm planning tool is one of the least user-friendly
interfaces I've ever used! It is not intuitive at all how to add or
delete classes using the tool and even though I've used it twice I still
forget how to do it sometimes. There are several seemingly unnecessary
steps and it would have been nice if they had short directions on how to
use the tool. It would be better if you were able to search for a class
and simply add it to your planning tool by clicking on it or clicking a
check plus or something. They should also have it designed so that it
will inform you if there is an interference in the schedule you enter
(which as of last semester it did not alert you of). Possibly making the
design more similar to the study card set up might be good too since
students are already familiar with it.

* The pre-term planning and concentration advising portal is infamously
bad. It's not set up in a logical way so people have difficulty adding
and deleting classes. Specifically, you have to label a class and then
add it to you schedule of classes. Also, when you search for a class,
the next search assumes it is simply working off the previous search
instead of conducting a new search so you have to clear your old search.
People hate pre-term planning because it's so difficult to use. The
Boston.com website has/used to have (no clue anymore since I can't
access the new website) the most obnoxious photo scrolling device. A new
webpage would load for each new picture that you clicked next on. I like
how on other sites the images are embedded so you don't have to wait for
the whole website to load before you see the next image..

* Pre-Term planning is rather sub-par. It's way too complicated to
insert a class, and finding the classes themselves is incredibly
difficult. It also isn't necessarily updated with which classes aren't
being offered in specific terms. It's currently optimized for the person
who is planning out seven potential concentrations and minors and what
not. It's just unnecessarily complicated.

* The Harvard Pre-Term Planning (PTP) website is abysmal. The first page
contains the following options: Pre-Term Planning, Create Planning
Worksheet, Plan of Study, Browse Courses, Print and Publish, My Course
History, and Instructions. To the user, it is not immediately obvious
which of these options are necessary for the completion of PTP – the
fact that there is an “Instructions” option already indicates that the
interface is not optimally intuitive. Pre-Term Planning seems like the
obvious first choice for a user, but the labeling of that choice as such
makes the other options seem extraneous. One of the problems is that
this website is only advertised as being for PTP when it in fact has
many other purposes – students only use it for PTP, though. Moving PTP
to a separate website by itself would allow students to not get bogged
down with the other options that the site has to offer. The following
observations regarding the Pre-Term Planning link are gathered from my
previous use of the PTP tool. As the PTP tool is not currently open, I
cannot comment more specifically on the Pre-Term Planning option: Once
the Pre-Term Planning option is selected, the user has to tag the
courses that they plan to take before adding them to their PTP list –
these intermediary steps are a hassle. However, the process of tagging
courses is buggy, with the process often rejecting or failing to
remember the user’s choices. The process of tagging is also not
intuitive, as there is little indication that you can store multiple
courses under one tag. I would fix this problem by allowing users to add
courses directly from “Browse Courses” to their PTP sheet. Debugging so
that users could tag courses easily would be helpful, too! The Browse
Courses link is also poorly designed. On this page, there are two
options for the user to browse: Search Course Title and Search All Text.
The second option is quite vague: search all text of what? There is a
navigation bar on the page, but it is shoved off to the left side of the
screen – the user’s eyes are not drawn to it, so the user may assume
that the Search Course Title and Search All Text options are the only
ways to browse courses. If the user happens to find the navigation bar,
he or she can narrow down courses by department, semester, etc. When the
user clicks on one of these options, the action at times affects the
browser (causing an abnormally long pause in action without any sort of
message such as “Searching”. The pause may lead the user to thing that
he or she made an error). Making the navigation bar a more central part
of the Browse Courses portion of the website would improve functionality
greatly. It would be optimal to integrate the courses.cs50.net website
(which is already wildly popular and easy to use) into the PTP website!

* The Harvard Pre-term Planning tool accessible through the Advising
Portal was very cumbersome to use - especially sophomore year when we
had to make a three year plan of the classes we wanted to take. Knowing
exactly how to add classes to the schedule was unintuitive. There were
too many different pages when I feel the whole process could have been
accomplished through one page with a search bar and a calendar on it. I
think it may have forced us to create lists to classify our various
classes but rather than be helpful, these lists made it difficult to
later choose a class to add to your schedule. It would have been helpful
if there was a search bar and you could type keywords for the class you
were looking for and then either drag it to your schedule or check a box
that would move it to your schedule. I did not find the website to be
self-explanatory nor user-friendly.

* The Harvard Pre-Term Planning tool. It is very difficult to add a
course into a courseplan- you can search different ways, and you add
these unnecessary "tags", and create different planning sheets... it's
all very confusing. I would find a way to sync it to the course app in
cs50, or at least a better search option that would allow you to simply
search for a class, add it to a worksheet, and have an algorithm that
flags errors (such as missing gen/eds/concentration requirements)

* The website that students must use to submit pre term planning each
semester is very cumbersome to use. In order to submit the courses one
plans to take for the upcoming semester, the user must first go in and
create lists (or rather "tags") in one page. They can then go to another
page to search courses, but the search engine has the annoying habit of
retaining all prior search criteria until it is actively "cleared." It
is also annoying in that if you search "course titles" and type in
"Economics 10" for example, it will return every course with either
"economics" or "10" in the title, so even when you know what specific
class you wish to take, it may be hard to find. Once you've found the
course in the search results, you must check a box next to it, then pick
out a tag and add the course to the tagged list. Then in a different
page, you can move the course from the tagged list into the plan. The
planner does not, however, validate whether a course is being listed in
the proper semester or not (it lets you put a spring-only course in the
fall in some forms). It is a tedious process for just listing about 4
course codes.

* The Pre-Term Planning Tool (by the Harvard Registrar)is the worst
thing I have ever used in my life. It makes you create arbitrary
clusters of classes, which you then have to regroup again and again in
order to get anything on your study card. The searches compound—search
for "foo" and then search for "bar" and it will search for BOTH. Search
for "cat" and it doesn't do exact word matching. It will pull up things
like "catch" as well. It doesn't make sense at all, and definitely isn't
optimized for common sense. T fix it, I would improve the search to be
in line with what every other website in the world does. I would
eliminate the process of putting courses into groups and then fishing
courses out of those groups. Why the extra step? Just have one step
where you search from the entire course catalog and add courses directly
from the catalog into your pre-term planning card.

* One of the least well designed user interfaces I have encountered is
the college's pre-term planning/Plan of Study tool. The tool requires
students to search a directory of classes, add classes of interest to a
"tag" and then navigate back to their worksheet where they can add
classes from tags. It would be much easier if users were able to add
classes directly from search without having to associate them with a tag
first. Additionally, only one class at a time can be selected from
search. It would make sense to make multiple classes selectable at once
as students could then search classes by concentration and
simultaneously add all classes of interest without having to search
multiple times.

* Worst idea ever: pre-term planning portal tool. Whoever set that up
was crazy. Not only is it ridiculous to actual make your way into that
portal: seriously the only way I ever get to it is from the registrars
website! But you have about a million steps just to put together a list
of classes you like. I don't understand why they don't just combine the
normal class search engine on my. harvard instead of making you go to a
whole new thing. Once at this awful portal that does not let you jump
through time and space, you have to create lists or something
ridiculously named that hold different classes. Why can't I just drag
and drop? Instead I have to change "tabs" to the courses list and
succesfully search through and CLICK ADD- again drag and drop please!
Heaven forbid you want to change concentration because instead of being
able to keep most of your template from your old one you have to start
nearly all over again with this silly click-down menu style set-up. I
don't like Harvard's websites...

* The pre-term planning tool is not intuitive to use and has too many
steps in order to actually add a course. I would fix it by integrating
it with courses.cs50.net so that students could easily add a course to
the planner while browsing courses. You could then see which of your
courses satisfy gen eds and/or concentration requirements.

* Pre Term Planning is actually potentially the most frustrating
interface I have ever been forced to use. One of the changes I would
make: Currently, the system requires you to go to a course-catalog type
place where you search through the course catalog and then mark a class
for a certain worksheet. Then you have to go to that worksheet and add
the class. This seems like a senselessly needless and confusing step. I
would want to change it so that we could go to the catalog and, directly
from there, add a class to our worksheet, or, even better search and add
classes directly from the worksheet. (or at least type in the name of
the class into the blank on the worksheet and have the name be
recognized from the catalog).

* I think our Harvard pre-term planning website is terrible. It is
completely unintuitive. You can't just click on courses to put them in
your planner. You have to take courses, put them in a list and then take
course from the list and put it in your planner for the following
semester's course choices. I would just allow users to click on courses
and automatically send them to the planner and skip the intermediate
step.

* The pre-term planning tool is, to put it gently, very user unfriendly.
In order to add classes to your preterm list you first have to add it to
a pre-existing list. Adding courses to the list is hard enough, so
making it mandatory causes headaches. The search tool is
counter-intuitive because after you do a search you have to remember to
"unsearch" everything otherwise you'll be stuck wondering why you have 0
results when you just searched cs50 and now you want to do a new search
on fungi. That's just the tip of the iceberg, I'm sure there's much more
to be discovered come this November. I don't mind their modular
searching idea - but the CLEAR ALL SEARCHES should be super big, bold,
and easy to remember/find. It would also be great if you could customize
it, like "never remember my searches". Also you would have your existing
preterm list on the side (toggle on/off visibility) and be able to drag
courses there and label them to your hearts content. I know this is
massively complicated but SERIOUSLY I don't mind doing PTP (its a good
idea) except for the website. The course catalog has improved lately, so
I was surprised when PTP turned out to be so subpar.


Q Guide
~~~~~~~

* I think that some of the Harvard website's user interfaces have
certain problems. In particular, I think the Q-guide could be made
better in a few ways. First, when you look at a class and go to the
questions, it almost invariably contains one question (about what future
students should know about a class) yet each time, you have to click the
triangle to see the answer. Furthermore, something that I've found
difficult to do is to search by professor - often, a professor or
preceptor is teaching a class for the first time, but it's hard to know
what the professor has taught in the past. Maybe if there were some
record per professor that could show his average stats, and maybe take
specific comments that deal with him/her, it would be easier to get an
idea of how the professor is. In general, I think the Q-guide can be
made more intuitive and easier to work with.

* I hope that we can search the Q guide by professors' names but not
just courses.

* I think that the Q guide is really poorly designed. Navigating to a
certain class is hard- one must pick the department and the term, and
then is given a long list of classes. Once the data is displayed, it is
hard to compare the information to benchmarks or other classes. In order
to go back, one has to start all over at the department. I would think
that the common case for the Q guide is that someone would be comparing
multiple similar classes, or at least comparing multiple cases. Thus,
some kind of comparison feature (or at least an easy way to find
classes) is in order. The average user for the average class doesn't
care about year-to-year fluctuations- with exceptions for dramatic
changes, the average is what matters. Making that average visible
immediately- much as courses.cs50 does- would be optimal.

* An interface that is very hard to use is the Harvard Q guide. This
interface is both hard to use from an accessibility stand point as well
as for anyone. The list of concentrations are not actual links so in
that regard it is hard to use from an accessibility standpoint. If a
user just views a list of links on the page they cannot access any of
the important information. After clicking on the concentration, the list
of links is accessible and it is alright to use the actual q scores.
However, if you want to go back to the course list it loses the place
where you were and you have to go back through the concentrations and
find the courses that you were looking at.

* The interface for the Harvard Q guide is somewhat subpar. To access
the data, I generally go from the Registrar's Office to the Q guide
homepage. But instead of allowing me to login and start looking for
courses, the site forces me to choose either Q Guide from the menu on
the left, and then makes me click AGAIN to do the only thing that I came
to the site to do: look at the Q guide. It'd be much better to have the
class selection menu as the homepage for the Q Guide. I'm then presented
with a list of general options. It appears that general categories
appear instead of classes to save space; however, this prevents me from
using ctrl-F to find the classes I want. Moreover, it would be better to
at least have the classes listed by more specific
concentrations/departments; there really isn't any way of knowing that
the CS classes are within the Engineering and Applied Sciences category.

* The Harvard FAS course website seems to want to emphasize the presence
of the QGuide for courses to the extent that it opens extra windows
simply displaying Q scores. Additionally, it is just cumbersome how long
it takes to navigate past the QGuide information onto regular course
info. I would change the website by having a button that takes you to
the course website itself, and a separate button that deals with the Q
Guide, but at this point, it's just suboptimal to be unnecessarily
opening new browser windows just to advertise for the seasonably useful
Q guide.

* I think that Harvard's online Q guide is incredibly poorly designed.
In order to find a course, you must first search by year/semester, then
by department, and then by course name. There is no way to search for a
course name or for a professor, and there is no way to easily compare
the ratings of two courses. If a course has not been taught for several
years, finding the last Q score from it can take a very long time. I
would improve the Q guide's design by allowing students to search for
professor, search for a course's name, and compare two different courses
in the different rating catagories.

* The Harvard Q guide. Firstly, like all Harvard websites you are
annoyingly prompted for your login by rerouting you to the pin system
page, which forces you to use a numerical pin which is harder to
remember/type than a word or name. Then you reach an intimidating page
listing all the departments, with the only filter being the term. There
needs to be a search option. Additionally, the courses would be better
as a sortable list that can be sorted on the various q subscores,
departments, etc. Once you reach the page of the class you want, its
actually not a bad interface, although a class comparison tool would be
very useful.

* The Harvard q guide online is designed poorly. Students cannot search
courses by q score, nor do they have easy access to all the course's
past websites. I would fix it by allowing students to see the ranks of
the courses across departments based on different q scores and have
links to all past websites readily accessible.


Sectioning Tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* I find Harvard FAS course sectioning tool to be poorly designed.
You're inundated by drop-down boxes and numbers for sectioning times. I
think it would be better to implement a course sectioning tool using a
GUI interface similar to Google Calendar's. This way, the user has a
better (VISUAL) appreciation for when he or she is sectioning (e.g. oh,
i shouldn't section sunday for 17:00-19:00, because I'll miss dinner).
Perhaps, the section times that you've ranked can also appear grayed out
when you're sectioning for other courses (I personally do this in Google
calendar to keep track of my section preferences, to improve the chances
that my section assignments won't conflict).

* Online Sectioning Tool. They show all of the courses in one
alphabetically-ordered list. The courses could be better sorted. Also,
the time slots for sectioning is in military-time, which bothersome.
Rather than clarifying, this makes me double and triple-check the times
because militar-time isn't intuitive to most people (as opposed to
12-hr, am/pm system). I would group the courses by general subject (gen
ed, biology, physics....) to find the course i want quicker. i would
change the time-slot options to 12hr rather than 24 hr.

* Difficult to section for some classes (such as Math 21a) which
requires you to download an extra, difficult to use program for the sole
purpose of sectioning for this one class. It would be an improvement if
all sectioning for classes at Harvard can be done through the same
system, based entirely online (and sign in with Harvard ID and
password).

* When choosing a math class this year, I was debating whether to take
Applied Math 21a, Math 21a or Math 23a. I struggled with this decision
for many days until the deadline for Math 21 sectioning came about. They
did it on some terminal application that almost felt like I was using
MS-DOS. The entire "application" was extremely poorly designed - not
only did the command prompt interface make it very difficult to
navigate, but I was actually unable to access math 21 sectioning. This
was after I had specifically downloaded Putty to run this sectioning
"tool". Regardless, the bug of me not being able to access math 21
ultimately helped me make my decision of not taking that class - not
that I would have been able t anyway. To fix it, I would simply do
something like almost every other class - section online. If I were
forced to use their application, at least make sure there would not be
any bugs and that the "keys" that you had to press to navigate were
clearly displayed. I was unable to find any place to change the class
(so I am led to believe the computer wouldn't let me switch classes to
21 at all.) Anyway, that's all! =)

* My biggest tech related frustration has come from the online
sectioning tools that the college uses. Depending on the class you have
to enter between 3 to 10 different time slots, and after filling in
slots that you don't actually have free you just kind of hope that you
don't get shafted with your 9th choice, or the like. What the dream
solution would be is something similar to the CS50 course shopping aid.
Something that integrates our different schedules, and then autofills
your available time slots. It could black out time when you have class
(or for athletes when they have practice), and then could assign
sections for multiple courses at the same time. Eliminating the tedious
process of section for various classes, and I am sure that this would
reduce the work load on TF's who currently have to spend a large amount
of time adjusting the sections for kids who were placed in sections that
don't work with their schedules.

* The sectioning tool could use some work. The interface could use some
more user-friendly touches. Specifically, it would be nice if there was
a status update telling you whether you've successfully completely
sectioning without have to scroll down for your class. Additionally, one
might a search option to make looking for a specific class along the
list a lot less painful. Also, it would be helpful if there was a better
way to log in numbered preferences for sectioning, particularly if there
are a lot of options.

* I feel like Harvard's sectioning tool is subpar. The primary issue I
have with it is that it uses a "column" based approach where a selection
is made in one collumn and is then made to move to the next "empty" one
if selected. It would be better to simply have a "check" system " with
bullet points". This would make the process easier and fewer errors
would occur.


SEO
~~~

* the seo job directory database search tool isn't very helpful, and i
usually find myself looking at jobs that i'm not even eligible for. in
particular, the search tool should allow users to choose if they want to
view jobs for freshmen, undergrads or grad students (or available to any
combination of these). the search tool should also allow a user to enter
a max. hours per week to filter out jobs they don't have time for. this
should be complemented with a "flexible" check box option for employers
who are flexible with hours and don't need students at specified times.
a minimum wage search option should also be put in. the database also
has this problem where if i click to view a job in a new tab, whenever i
click the next page on the first tab, it takes me to the job description
instead of the next page.

* The Harvard SEO Student Jobs Database inconveniently asks the user to
re-sign-in after a short time of inactivity has elapsed. However, the
login page the user is directed to is faulty in that it doesn't accept
the Harvard ID/PIN combination and is dysfunctional. Instead, the user
needs to reload the Database from the address bar and start all over
from the initial page which prompts the user about whether they are a
student or alumni. To fix this inconvenience, the user should be
directed directly to the ID/PIN page when the user has been inactive for
a specified amount of time to avoid having to go through 3 pages just to
reload the page and continue using the database. It would also be
helpful if the website remembered which page on the database the user
was on and could redirect them to it since re-searching for a job
position on the database may require going through several pages.
Instead, we could have the database redirect the user after re-logging
in to the exact page they were on.


Shuttle Tracker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* I think ShuttleBoy could be improved by adding the ability to check
the times and locations of non-Harvard-run shuttles. For example, many
College students take the M2 to their research labs in the Harvard
Medical School area. I also think it would be nice if ShuttleBoy
provided better descriptions of where the bus stops are located, perhaps
via a pop-up map.

* I think the Shuttle Tracker website is very poorly designed. When I
was trying to go to office hours at the ilab, I could not tell where the
shuttle stopped or what type of shuttle went to which places. There was
color coding and a cool interactive map. However, I do not think the
website is very user friendly.

* ShuttleTime2 (perhaps the fastest shuttle app) is not optimized to
remember routes taken. I use it for 2 routes: Quad -> Mass Ave and
Boylston -> Quad, but I have to scroll through and find the
origin/destination each time. I would add a "favorites" feature. Also,
less relevantly, Shuttle Boy (and other shuttle apps) are not optimized
for non-common cases. On holidays and non-shuttle days, they still
report the shuttles as running normally.

* The mobile shuttle tracker that blackberry users have access to is
absolutely terrible. First, the route map does not align with the stops
or actual route (it is displaced to the north), so we can't actually
know where the shuttle is. Second, we don't get links to the actual
shuttle schedule, but have to type the long url in manually (if we even
know it). Third, if you get to the shuttle schedule, it's in the form of
a pdf with a large file size, so it takes forever to load and you have
to scroll around and zoom in and out (which is painful on a blackberry)
to find the numbers you need. What we need is a real-time tracker that
shows real location and lets us click on stops to see when the next
shuttle will be there, a link to the shuttle schedule, and a more
user-friendly mobile version of the schedule.

* Harvard's official shuttletracker by text requires you to text a three
digit number associated with a particular shuttle stop to find out when
the next shuttle arrives there. Not only does this require that you
memorize a large number of essentially random three digit numbers to
use, it also doesn't allow for checking of destinations. A shuttle
stopping at Boylston Gate can go several different places and this won't
distinguish between them. It would be much improved by being more like
shuttleboy, with an easy to remember code for each location (such as
characters in the place's name) and a second input for destination. It's
also redundant as is, with it essentially being a worse version of
shuttleboy. But, it has potential to be much improved due to the
official shuttletracker website also having live GPS data. If, in
addition to the above user interface changes, it would also incorporate
the GPS data in responses to text, to provide a "live update" on how the
shuttles are running, it would be very much improved and worth using.


UHS
~~~

* I find scheduling an appointment through Harvard's Health Services
website confusing. First of all, whenever I attempt to schedule an
appointment it times out after only a few steps. Second of all, it asks
for information that I feel like they should have on file when I enter
my HUID, such as what yard I am in or what my phone number is. They
should simplify it by just asking for symptoms.

* The writing center website redirects you too much. The patient online
website for UHS is, in a word, terrible to look at. Besides being ugly,
its "confidential" patient to doctor email system is harder to use than
the old Harvard email. As it is, I avoid communicating with my doctor
and hate having to copy all of my appointments to google calendars by
hand. Also, their method of making appointments requires way too much
work.

* One Harvard site that I've found unreasonably difficult to use is the
Harvard University Health Services website. The site's front page is
fairly neat, with a navigation bar that contains links to the "health
services", "providers", "health information and resources", and "about
us" pages on the site. However, looking at any of these menus, you are
presented with a long list of confusing options, for example clicking on
the "health services" bar yields a menu that contains 17 different types
of "services", none of which are "make an appointment". When I first
used the site it took me about five minutes to realize that what I was
looking for was under "adult primary care", however that page gives you
no information and prompts you to select from "care coordination",
"physical exams", and "immunizations" on the left. I selected "care
coordination" only to find that HUHS uses this term to refer to caring
for people with severe illnesses, not making basic appointments as I was
trying to do. At this point I just gave up and called HUHS because their
website was too hard to use. Even more difficult is the HUHS secure
messaging system, which is, as I found out, the means by which you can
actually modify appointments and send messages to your doctors. To get
to this system you have to follow a link from the main HUHS page and you
then see a messaging interface that looks more like an excel spreadsheet
than an email system. There are arbitrary checks on messages that you
haven't read yet (with no indication of what such checks mean), and it
takes a good five minutes to figure out just how to use that system as
well. It seems to me that there are 4 common tasks that HUHS website
users want to be able to perform on the site: making or changing
appointments, messaging their doctors, finding information on insurance
coverage of HUHS fees, and finding general health information (although
this is a fairly obsolete feature with webmd and the mayo clinic site).
While there should be information about everything HUHS can do, the
"health services" bar should certainly have "make an appointment" and
"contact your doctors" options, and then perhaps another option taking
you to the full list of care options currently displayed. The "health
information and resources" menu should be changed to focus on health
insurance coverage and a link to the general health info page, but it
has to be kept simple. Lastly, the main site should have an integrated
login system such that users don't have to go to the external messaging
site and can easily navigate between a page to message doctors and
change appointments to other parts of the site. With simple interface
updates such as these I think the site could be drastically streamlined
and made functional, such that new users wouldn't have to spend such a
long time trying to figure out how to use the site to no avail.


Other...
~~~~~~~~

* The UC elections website looks very technical and sometimes it's hard
to figure out what's happening. The rules aren't explained and you can't
tell if you're actually voting the right way, and how the votes get
counted.

* The placement exams page for Harvard
(http://placement-info.fas.harvard.edu) is difficult to navigate. The
navigation bar on the left side has longer-than-average descriptions
that require a user to think too deeply about where he or she would like
to go. It is also not intuitively clear what information is contained on
each of those subpages. Three different links on language tests can
cause trouble for a user that is unsure of which one to go to.
Additionally, users expect the home page to provide more information
(possible with links within the body) about which links they should
explore, but the home page instead provides very general information.

* One adjustment that could increase convenience substantially is
improvement of the swipe system, particularly for admission into secure
buildings. Currently how it works is that you have to take out your
wallet containing your Harvard ID and then bring it up close to the
detector which then senses the card via radio-frequency ID. While this
is an improvement from physically swiping your card in the detector, it
could be made even better. For those who don't have pockets or simply
carry their IDs in their backpacks, it is often very inconvenient to
have to put everything in your hands down, take your backpack off, find
your ID, press it to the detector point blank, put it away again, pick
up all your stuff and open the door all within the time-span the door
remains unlocked after RFID. A simple improvement would be to extend the
radius of the RFID detector and perhaps make it a bit more sophisticated
so that if the ID is within a radius of say 5 meters, the detector
senses and automatically unlocks the door, no matter the specific
position of the ID is within that radius. This would make a frequent
day-to-day activity much more convenient. Carrying things into your
building wouldn't be a burden. Moving larger objects like couches and
bed mattresses during move-in and out would be much easier. It is
definitely something that is inconvenient and in frequent usage enough
that this small improvement would make a big difference. There are more
sensitive RFID devices that could be installed. This would solve the
problem.

* Kennedy School K-net. Cluttered, unclear and no idea how exactly it
relates to JACK and SPARKS. Not even sure for what purpose I am supposed
to use it.

* hbs email system seems outdated and cumbersome. Not as slick and easy
to use (not talking aesthetics). The buttons are not as intuitive, the
address book is very difficult to use and navigate

* The Harvard website where you declare financial aid is separate from
the term bill website, which makes it a hassle to update your financial
aid information. This also creates a longer lag between when you declare
the aid and when it shows up on your term bill.

* Ordering at the grille in Eliot House is often chaotic and can take a
long time especially if it is busy. Right now they use paper order slips
which wastes paper. Also, the plates are often put down randomly so you
don't know who was actually first in placing down their order unless you
keep an eye which is hard to do because it often gets crowded around
peak times. To fix this, I would create a FIFO system in which the
person who puts their order down first gets their food first. It would
be cool to have an iPad set up at the grille into which people can enter
their order and type their name in. Then, a screen next to the grille
where the chefs are starts to pop up the orders that have been placed in
the right sequence. The chefs can tap the order when they have been
completed. Another way to make things easier but would potentially
increase waiting times is to cook similar orders together. For instance,
wait until 2 people have ordered a hot dog or cook a batch of scrambled
eggs together.

* I think Harvard Facebook is a good example of poor design. While it
does a good job of returning results of matching last names / first
names, whenever you make a search, it moves to a new page that has only
the results. If there are no matches, it prints "There were no matches
for your search." If there are matches, it prints both the picture and
name of the matched searches. Here is where I think this webpage can
improve. Right now, you have to click on either "New Search" or "Modify
Search" to run another search or modify what you originally typed in. I
feel like there must be a better way to eliminate this step of going
back and forth pages. The better approach might be to just print out
either the error message or the pictures / names just below the search
lines and keep the search box / drop-down menues where they are. This
way, you don't need those extra links of "New Search" or "Modify
Search." Plus, when needing to search for many people, it will make the
process a lot faster, since this eliminates clicking one of the two
links after searching for one person, reducing at least "n" steps of the
algorithm if searching for n people!

* Automated phone menus for on-campus services (like the Financial Aid
Office or emergency services like HUHS) tend to be circuitous and
difficult especially when one has a general inquiry (which is common and
often needs person-to-person interaction).

* I am extension school student and I was visiting Harvard main campus
in Cambridge and needed to visit the parking services web site to
purchase the parking voucher. Main interface at the following web site
is little messy and first time visitors will get lost with how the
information is presented.
http://www.uos.harvard.edu/transportation/parking/ For example, I am
looking into purchase my parking voucher and I get lost with lot of
unnecessary informations being thrown to me. It took me few steps to get
to what I need. To enhance this, I would move the "Parking Bulletin" to
the bottom and give less precedence from the right hand corner. This
section is where most controlled and important functionality of the UI
should be located. Moving the "Parking Applications" and other important
functionality should be replace the parking bulletin section. Also
parking bulletin font style and bold should match the entire site. That
bold font face looks like its is yelling at the user and it should match
the entire site to give more "blend-in" look and feel. that was my .2
cents :)

* The OCR website can use some changes. Some of the links redirect you
to websites in Harvard's IT services that are a total different layout.
The drastic change in outlaying of data is a little disorienting as you
go in between websites.

* The office of student life's list of student organizations seems to be
in its own window inside the page it is in. This window is extremely
long and therefore has its own scroll bar. Whether the webpage or the
window is scrolled seems to depend (on my setup at least) on where the
cursor is placed. However, if the cursor is over internal window and it
can't scroll anymore, the outside page will scroll--this often results
in the internal window moving out of view. This seems to make no sense,
as there is no reason for this additional complication to exist, even if
it is relatively self-explanatory (except for maybe the last part).

* The elevator in Mather house. Everyone always takes it from the first
floor to the fourth, and it always stays there because almost nobody
takes it to go to the first floor. Everyone always has to wait on the
first floor for it to come down. It should be programmed to go to the
first floor automatically after say, a minute or non-use.

* The Harvard study abroad website is poorly designed. It requires the
person to know exactly which region he or she is interested in studying
abroad and does not give a search function. In the application file
portion of the website, after one has applied to a study abroad program,
there is no indicators of the next steps to take or what is mandatory to
get done. A flow of all the steps needed to study abroad should be
clearly posted on the website and links to each step.

* The Math 1B website at Harvard: After clicking on the homework
section, the user is taken to a page which displays a summary of the
homeworks, and a link for a folder containing the homeworks. After
clicking that link, the user is taken to a second page which again
displays a link containing the homework files. Finally, after clicking
that link the user is shown a list of PDF files. Both of the first two
homework links are unnecessary. If the summary of the homeworks is
deemed essential (though it probably isn't), it could be placed in a
text box on what is now the third layer in the homework section, and
this would save the user two clicks (since nothing can be accomplished
in the first two layers).

* https://husp.sona-systems.com/ It is the harvard psychology study pool
website. I work with it because I am a research assistant in a psych lab
and it is incredibly un-user friendly. It requires WAY more steps than
necessary to post time slots for a study. Also, if you want to grant
credit to a student who participated in a study, if you have more than
one students to grant credit for, after you granted one credit it
immediately goes back to the home page. Then you have to navigate all
the way back to the grant credits page and start all over again. This is
incredibly inefficient and a pain in the butt! It is also not self
explanatory at all and takes a lot of tinkering to figure out what's
going on. I would fix the grand credit issue by not defaulting back to
the main page after one case was fulfilled and instead go back to the
grant credits page.

* I find the Harvard Art Museum website where you can look through the
collection a bit annoying. The search features are good in that you can
easily find for a specific time period/culture/medium/title/artist/etc.,
but once you press search, all of your specified fields clear. So if you
want to search again and only change one of the multiple categories
you've just checked, you have to re-enter the information in all of
those search fields. You shouldn't have to click back to the most recent
search in the "Your last 10 searches" section. Also, the Lightbox
feature letting you create a collection is really useful, but it isn't
saved within the site for the next time you enter. It seems unnecessary
to email it to yourself every time you update it. The images should be
stored based on your computer or harvard account that all students have.

* I would like to comment on the Harvard Mathematics Department Home web
page. Although overall the website has many nice features and much
useful information, it could benefit from more organization. From the
beginning, the homepage seems a bit too crowded, which made it difficult
to find the right information. This could be fixed by having one clearly
defined menu block for the buttons and make sub-menus for each button.
Secondly, many pages have fonts that are too small (ex. courses), which
could make the information demanding to read. An easy fix would either
to increase font size or to create dynamic contents for links that will
only show up when clicked. Finally, many pages have very long contents
that require much scrolling. One way to fix it would be to create index
buttons or to reorganize the information into separate pages.

* It's fairly petty, but my SW-12's course website is very poorly laid
out. The most relevant information each time I visit is what our section
assignment (due Wednesdays at 7pm) is exactly. Usually, we have to click
through at least 4 links (Week-by-Week Schedule, then Week 7, then Week
7 assignment) before seeing the actual prompt. Even then, you still have
to scroll to the bottom because the images at the top are too large. I
think a box on the front page, similar to how CS50.net works, would
improve my course website experience.

* Upon looking at Harvard house websites, I found that
http://leverett.harvard.edu/ had quite a bit of design issues. The first
thing that glaringly stands out is the shear magnitude of different
somewhat unrelated items cluttering the front page. Also, the user has
to scroll the page up and down multiple times to find what they want
from the front page unless the user is very very careful. Having a video
on the front page probably makes the site open slower. A simple fix in
principle is to reserve the front page only for announcements and links
to other parts of the site just for the sake of not being as demanding
on the user to find what he or she needs especially if one hasn't seen
the website before.

* Turning on the TV in the Canaday common room actually is quite
difficult. Not as easy as the click of a button. Why are there so many
buttons? It is so confusing. I wish there could be two remotes - one
with all the features and one with the basic functions like on and off,
volume and channel changing. Perhaps button size on the remote could be
different to denote importance. "Wait, do i need to access the dvd
player right now? no! I want to watch food network!" I'd love the on
button to be big and "play" dvd to be smaller, or more logically
organized.

* I've always thought that there must be a quicker algorithm for
controlling how elevators operate. I mean sometimes I am waiting in the
science center and I have to wait for the elevator to go all the way u
to the 8th story before it can go down the 1st story. I understand the
idea of dedicated elevators each going up and down, but there must be a
more efficient system! maybe... bubble sort.

* PBHA has a database that keeps track of the information for the
individuals involved with various programs at various levels. The
process of updating information for and creating information for a new
individual is very redundant and somewhat annoying. The current system
is not user friendly. I believe that the organization is already in the
process of looking for a better database structure.

* Harvard's parking website is quite unintuitive. It should be much
easier to find a parking garage (a better clickable map would help)
based on proximity to various buildings, find out the parking garage
hours and to purchase a one day parking permit more easily. The current
website does allow this but in a very circuitous manner. It should not
take 20 minutes to purchase a one day parking permit. On a side note,
notable mainly because it comes from Apple, who are generally good about
user interfaces and I am generally an Apple fan. I find Apple Aperture
quite unintuitive, and find Adobe Lightroom much easier to use. It is
hard to go into details with such complex programs but I often find
myself staring at a screen in Aperture wondering what to do next, while
it is usually very obvious within Lightroom. One last pet peeve. I am
one of those who decries the move on laptops to a more "iphone" or
"ipad" like interface (As in Mac OsX Lion, Windows 8 and Gnome 3) and
generally want my trackpad to act like a mouse replacement rather the an
iphone style screen. This is coming from someone who owns both an iphone
and ipad and love them, but still find the change in operating system
GUIs jarring. Needless to say I have turned off most of these features
off when feasible.

* I find Facebook a jumbled mess of "features", it is absolutely
ridiculous how many hoops they make you jump through, the appearance is
now overly crowded. It used to be clean and easy to navigate, and at
that point in time the simplicity of the website made sense; it didn't
need the artistic fluff one could achieve on "Myspace". Now, with the
added "features", ads, news feeds, it just looks gaudy, and distracts
from the site's original purpose.
* Several of the bathrooms in Harvard buildings have water saver toilets
with dual function handles. It is left to the user to either push the
flush handle down for "number 2" and up for "number 1." Unfortunately,
as humans, we are creatures of habit and, without a doubt, we push the
handle down even if the morally correct choice, if you care about the
environment, is to pull the handle up. We don't do this because we hate
water. Rather, we have been trained to follow this procedure since we
left diapers. I would have made the push down of the lever default to
"number 1" as this uses less water. Then, the user will have to make a
decision to pull up on the handle for "number 2." This design change
will utilize the water saver feature more often and only use more water
when necessary. I also would have incorporated the instructions in to
the actual handle so that you see them when you actually grab the
handle. A sign on the wall can be missed or people will not bother to
read it. :)

* I believe that the OSL room reservation portal is poorly designed. It
is not easy to book a room through this online system. The website is
accessed through the student organization portal and allows users to
send in requests for rooms on campus. However, the website is hard to
understand and not user-friendly. You must request a time for a room but
you personally don't know the availability of the room. It is a hit or
miss process that takes multiple interactions with the OSL to book a
room. The portal does not designate any of the specifications for the
room either. To improve the website and functionality of the website, I
would like to see perhaps an easy to view calendar for each room that
designates when it's being used and when it is free. It would be nice if
student groups could search for a certain room, pull up a calendar for
that room, and then simply click and drag on the calendar to book a room
for a certain amount of time (with approval from OSL). Your requests
would then be denoted on the bottom of your profile when you enter the
room reservation portal. One additional measure that would be
appreciated, are the specifications (room size, projector availability,
and more) for each room on the room reservation portal rather than
having to go to outside sites to find that information. Overall, this
would make the room reservation process a whole lot easier for student
groups because they would be able to manage the room reservation
schedule themselves rather than having to wait to see if the rooms they
requested are available.

* The website of the office of Student Life is very badly categorized.
Visually it is appealing. But it is difficult to find what I'm looking
for. For example it takes me 5 minutes to find the Student Organization
Portal every time I am looking for it. You have to go through 3 links to
find something as essential as that. And the subheadings are not that
clear either.

* The registration and course management page at the law school, HLS
MyPlan, is very poorly designed. It's difficult to directly link to or
find without Googling, and even then it doesn't go directly to log in.
Courses are chosen, added to waitlist, or ranked for lottery on
different pages. Also, changes to personal information (address, etc.)
are also made through the page but are impossible to find as they are
listed under a rather counter-intuitive tab. To fix it, I would program
in a clearer connection between functions normal executed together (like
choosing courses and ranking them for lottery). I would put directions
and the times/dates of registering clearly listed on the entry page so
the registrar doesn't need to spam us with e-mails as they're always
changing the process for clinicals and such. The tabs and links need
clearer names and more intuitive connections. MyPlan should be marked
more clearly as its own site. I'm not sure why, but Google always
connects to the directions page, and links to MyPlan from there. In
addition, these often-used sites (MyPlan, MyHLS, Mymail, Financial
Services, and course listings/instructor evaluations) should be grouped
together or clearly linked to from a central location. As it is, one has
to dig to find all the sites that one will actually use, generally by
reading way too many e-mails for links then finally searching through
Google as navigating through as the HLS main site is pretty difficult to
navigate.

* I feel that the Cabot House website (http://www.cabot.harvard.edu/) is
poorly designed with regard to room reservation. On this website, it is
extremely difficult (if impossible) to reserve rooms online, unlike on,
say, Quincy's website. The rest of the website's functionality is quite
sound; the website has all of the information a person would most likely
be looking for about the house, and it is quite self-explanatory.
However, adding a Room Reservation Tool onto the homepage would improve
this website's functionality significantly.

