---
tags: []
title: Caesar_Cipher
---

Caesar cipher is an implementation of symmetric-key cryptography which
was first used by Julius Caesar to communicate with his generals. The
symmetric key is a number between 0 and 25 (or, if greater, is converted
to a number between 0 and 25 using the modulo operation) which indicates
how many letters down the alphabet to shift the plaintext message being
encrypted. For example, if the key were 3, the letter B would be shifted
to E, as shown in the following diagram:

image: Caesar.png[ Caesar.png,title="image"]

If the plaintext letter being shifted were Y, the ciphertext output
letter would be B, as the letters rotate back to A once they've reached
Z.

As an implementation of symmetric-key cryptography, Caesar cipher
requires that both the sender and the recipient have knowledge of the
secret key since it is used both to encrypt and to decrypt messages.

Given that the security of a cryptographic algorithm is loosely
correlated with the amount of time it takes to be cracked by brute
force, Caesar cipher is highly insecure. Because there are only 26
possible keys (a key of 27 is equivalent to a key of 1), an adversary
can quite easily try to decrypt a message using every single one and
quickly discover the original message.

Caesar cipher played an integral role (sort of, not really) in the movie
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Christmas_Story[A Christmas Story] in
which Ralphie discovered the message "Be sure to drink your Ovaltine"
using his secret decoder device. The secret decoder device had two
alphabets written in concentric circles. By turning the dial, each
letter on one of the alphabets would match up with a different letter on
the other alphabet. The number of positions that the dial was turned
represents the value of the key for Caesar cipher.

Category: Week 2[Category: Week 2]
