---
tags: []
title: Scratch
---

http://scratch.mit.edu[Scratch] is an interpreted programming language
designed by the Lifelong Kindergarten group out of
http://web.mit.edu[MIT's] http://www.media.mit.edu/[Media Lab] and is
designed to make programming more accessible and teach programming
concepts by removing the need to understand the occasionally complex
syntax of a more traditional programming language.

Programming in Scratch requires downloading the Scratch application from
its http://scratch.mit.edu[website], and there are versions available
for Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X computers.

Once downloaded and opened, programming in Scratch is done by way of
puzzle pieces called blocks. A block that performs the required action
is dragged into position in the script area and connected to adjacent
blocks to create a collection of statements called a script. Once a
script is run, it follows a well-defined link:Control Flow[control flow]
from the beginning of the script and continues to subsequent blocks that
are attached to the previous. Actions are performed on the stage by a
sprite. The default sprite is the Scratch cat, and this sprite can move,
"say" items, play sounds, and perform other actions through the use of
the puzzle pieces.

The Scratch language supports common programming constructs like
link:Variable[variables], link:Condition[conditions], link:Loops[loops],
link:Thread[threading], link:Event[events], and link:Array[arrays], and
is therefore a useful pedagogical tool when introducing programming to
new users.

Once a Scratch program is completed, it can be shared with others by
uploading it to the http://scratch.mit.edu[Scratch website]. The website
includes a Java-based Scratch interpreter so that uploaded Scratch
programs can be run by most users on the Internet.

Category:Week 0[Category:Week 0]
