---
tags: []
title: Staff
---

If you have questions not addressed below, simply contact
heads@cs50.net!


Contact Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you are logged into the courses's website, you should see phone
numbers for all staff (in addition to names, email addresses,
concentrations and houses) if you visit
http://www.cs50.net/staff/[http://www.cs50.net/staff/].


Lounge
~~~~~~

For swipe access to the Lounge (MD G123), apply via the link at
http://www.cs50.net/lounge/[http://www.cs50.net/lounge/]. It generally
takes about a week to be added to the system. Email sysadmins@cs50.net
if you still don't have access after a week.


Office Hours
~~~~~~~~~~~~

TFs are required to hold 3 hours of OHs and/or VOHs per week. CAs are
required to hold 2 hours of OHs and/or VOHs per week. All TFs and CAs
should have read/write access to the course's Google Calendars for OHs
and VOHs; if not, contact heads@cs50.net.

If you cannot make your regularly scheduled office hours, simply
reschedule them via Google Calendar *unless they are fewer than 48 hours
away*, in which case contact heads@cs50.net instead, so that we can
ensure coverage.


Photocopies
~~~~~~~~~~~

To make copies for section, you can use the copy machines on floor 2 or
floor 3 of Maxwell Dworkin. To log in to either, input *5050* then hit
*ID*; no need for a password. The copies will be billed to CS50.

To make large numbers of copies (e.g., for course-wide reviews or
walkthroughs), ask heads@cs50.net (at least 48 hours in advance) how to
outsource to Classic Graphx.


Rooms
~~~~~

To reserve a room on campus, contact heads@cs50.net.


Software
~~~~~~~~

For software and other deals to which CS50 has access, head to Deals.


Solutions
~~~~~~~~~

Sample solutions to problem sets can be found in
`~cs50/staff/solutions/` on `cloud.cs50.net`. You should be able to `cd`
into that directory as yourself; if not, contact sysadmins@cs50.net.


Virtual Terminal Room
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To log into the VTR, simply follow the link on the course's website and
log in as yourself. If you are not automatically logged in as a
moderator, contact sysadmins@cs50.net. If your office hours are about to
begin, call David at 617-523-0925.
