---
tags: []
title: How to Attend Virtual Office Hours
---

Thanks to technology, the staff can now help you troubleshoot bugs by
observing or sharing control of your screen while chatting with you via
IM or VOIP, whether you're at home, at work, at Starbucks, or beyond.
This article explains how to attend virtual office hours (VOHs) in
CS50’s virtual terminal room (VTR). The VTR does offer features beyond
those described herein; certainly feel free to play. Do bear in mind,
however, the http://www.cs50.net/syllabus/[syllabus's] policy on
academic honesty.


Step 0
------

Head to http://www.cs50.net/vtr/[cs50.net/vtr] (which is also linked at
http://www.cs50.net/ohs/[cs50.net/ohs], where the VTR awaits. You will
be advised to confirm that your computer meets minimum system
requirements. You will also be informed as to whether your computer
appears to have the required software installed; if it does not, you
will be provided with directions on how to download and install the
software (for free).


Step 1
------

Enter the VTR by clicking the button labeled *Enter VTR*. If prompted
thereafter to click one or more other buttons in order to *accept*,
*agree*, *download*, *open*, *run*, *trust*, *unblock*, or the like, do
so. Within a few seconds, the VTR should open in a separate window like
the below

image:Holdvohs1.png[Holdvohs1.png,title="image"]


Step 2
------

To request help from a member of the staff (i.e., a moderator), “raise
your hand” by clicking the hand in the window’s upper-left quadrant, as
in the below.

image:Attendvohs2.png[Attendvohs2.png,title="image"]

While you wait for help, you’re welcome to converse with other students
using the *Chat* interface in the window’s bottom-left quadrant. If your
computer has a microphone, do beware the *Audio* area. Only one person
can talk at once, and if you leave that *Talk* button depressed
accidentally, everyone will hear you (and probably make fun of you). Be
sure not to start sharing applications or your desktop until you are
pulled into a private room, per link:#_step_3[Step 3]. Otherwise,
everyone (who’s not already in a private room) will see what you are
doing. And try not to background or minimize the VTR’s window, lest you
not notice when it’s your turn!


Step 3
------

As soon as one of us is available, you’ll be pulled into a private room,
where you can begin conversing privately with us via *Chat* or *Audio*,
without other students seeing or hearing. If helping you requires seeing
or controlling what’s on your screen, go ahead and share the
application(s) that you would like us to see by clicking the icon
pictured below, which can be found in the virtual terminal room’s
top-left quadrant.

image:Attendvohs3.png[Attendvohs3.png,title="image"]

You’ll be presented with a window like the below, listing every
application that you have running that isn’t minimized; ctrl-click each
application that you’d like to share, then click *OK*.

image:Attendvohs4.png[Attendvohs4.png,title="image"]

Note that the virtual terminal room’s layout might change when you start
sharing applications in order to make room for them. To restore the
original layout, select *View → Layouts → Default Layout*.

If we want not only to see but also to control those applications,
you’ll see a window like the below.

image:Attendvohs5.png[Attendvohs5.png,title="image"]

Provided you are comfortable doing so, click *Yes*. (If, because of a
bug in the VTR, you cannot see *Yes* or *No*, simply hit *Enter*
instead.) Rest assured that anything we do on your computer you will be
able to see; the software doesn’t let us poke around unbeknownst to you.
To terminate application sharing at any point, simply click once more
the icon pictured below, which may have relocated itself to the
left-hand side of your screen.

image:Attendvohs3.png[Attendvohs3.png,title="image"]


The End
-------

That’s it! These instructions are intentionally brief, focusing only on
what you need to know. Do feel free to play around to learn more.
Included at this document’s end is also a one-page, quick-reference
guide.

Category:HOWTO
