---
tags: []
title: Cryptography
---

Cryptography is the study of passing information secretly between a
sender and a recipient. Most often, cryptography involves a manipulation
of the original text of the message into ciphertext which is difficult
to cipher even if intercepted by an adversary.

One famous example of cryptography was the use of the Enigma machine by
the Axis powers during World War II. The secret of the German code
actually lay in the mechanics of the Enigma machine, so physical
possession of the machine was necessary to encrypt or decrypt messages
(although American and British codebreakers were able to decipher some
of the messages without having the machine).

For our purposes, cryptography can be divided into two types: symmetric
key and public key. Symmetric-key cryptography uses the same key to
encrypt and decrypt messages. Thus, both the sender and the recipient of
a message must know the key ahead of time. This presents a problem,
however. If you are buying something on Amazon.com and you'd like your
credit card information encrypted before it's sent, how will you and
Amazon agree on a key ahead of time?

Enter public-key cryptography. In public-key cryptography, different
keys are used to encrypt and decrypt messages. Both sender and recipient
have a set of private and public keys. The private keys are used to
decrypt messages and the public keys are used to encrypt messages. When
the sender wants to transmit an encrypted message to the recipient, he
encrypts it using the recipient's public key, which can be widely
distributed without jeopardizing the message. The recipient can then
decrypt the message using his private key. This is because there is a
close mathematical relationship between the private and public keys. RSA
and Diffie-Hellman are two well-known implementations of public-key
cryptography.

Returning to the Amazon problem, we can see that with public-key
cryptography, there is no longer a need to communicate a secret key
between sender and recipient before the actual message is transmitted.
However, we can actually combine symmetric-key and public-key
cryptography in a compelling way. If we use public-key cryptography to
send a message consisting of a secret key to the recipient, then the
sender and recipient can thereafter use symmetric-key cryptography to
transmit messages because they will both have knowledge of the shared
secret key.

Two implementations of symmetric-key cryptography we've looked at are
link:Caesar cipher[Caesar cipher] and link:Vigenère cipher[Vigenère
cipher].

Category: Week 2[Category: Week 2]
