---
tags: []
title: SecureFX
---

`  :*'".|                                 ";----- -,    -,` +
`  ':.                                     ;    "   \  /` +
`    *:.                                   ;--|      \/` +
`     '":.  .*-.  .*-; ,: ,:  ';/".  .*-.  ;         /\` +
`       :; :'/'  :'     :  |   ;    :./'   ;        /  \` +
` |,._.:*  ':.,* ':.,*  :._|, _;_   ';,.* _;_     _'    '_  `

*SecureFX* is commercial software for Windows that Harvard has a site
license for. It is installed on most PCs around campus and can be
installed on yours as well. It is used for file transfers, through
Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP).

If you don't already have SecureFX installed on your computer already,
head on over to the course's website and download the installer for
SecureFX under *Software*. After it has been downloaded, double-click
the installer's icon and follow the on-screen instructions. It's fine to
breeze through them, leaving all defaults selected.

Although you can't SSH to fas.harvard.edu (and must use
nice.fas.harvard), you can SFTP to the both former and latter, as your
home directory is accessible on both.

== Launching SecureFX

Launch SecureFX via its icon. You should see a window like:

image:FXConnect.jpg[FXConnect.jpg,title="image"]

Otherwise, bring it up with *File* -> *Connect...* Your window may or
may not list the same sessions (eecs.harvard.edu and fas.harvard.edu, in
the image). If fas.harvard.edu does not appear in your Connect window,
proceed to *Creating a Session* below. If fas.harvard.edu _does_ appear,
skip to *Using SecureFX*.


== Creating a Session

In the *Connect* window, click the "*New Session*" icon (third from the
top-left) in the toolbar, shown below.

image:FXNewSession.jpg[FXNewSession.jpg,title="image"]

Make sure the settings in the window that appears look exactly like:

image:FXWiz1.jpg[FXWiz1.jpg,title="image"]

Click *Next* and, again, make sure the window looks like:

image:FXWiz2.jpg[FXWiz2.jpg,title="image"]

Another *Next*, and another window to match:

image:FXWiz3.jpg[FXWiz3.jpg,title="image"]

Finally, click *Finish*. You should see the *Connect* window again, but
with fas.harvard.edu as a session (as shown above).


== Using SecureFX

Launch it. It should look something like:

image:FXConnect.jpg[FXConnect.jpg,title="image"]

Highlight fas.harvard.edu by clicking it and click *Connect*. If you see
a window like the one below, click *Accept & Save*.

image:FXUsing1.jpg[FXUsing1.jpg,title="image"]

If prompted, provide your username and password. A window containing at
least two smaller windows should then appear, like that shown below.
Your smaller windows may be arranged differently, but one of them should
provide access to your computer's contents while the other contains your
home directory's contents.

image:FXUsing2.jpg[FXUsing2.jpg,title="image"]

Navigate, via the correct smaller window, to the file(s) you would like
to upload/download by double-clicking the appropriate icons. If you are
looking to upload something from your computer, navigate to the file(s)
to upload in your local computer's window. If you are looking to
download from your home directory, navigate to the file(s) to download
in your home directory's window.

Then, navigate to your destination (where you would like to put the
file(s)) in the other window via the same double-clicking method. (If
you need to create one or more directories in the window, simply
right-click within the window and select *New* -> *Folder*.) Drag the
file(s) from the source window to the destination. If prompted with a
window like below, be sure to select *ASCII (text)* only if the file you
are transferring is purely text (e.g. C source code, CSS, XHTML, etc.).
Otherwise, leave *Binary (non-text)* selected, and click *OK*.

image:FXUsing3.jpg[FXUsing3.jpg,title="image"]

Near the bottom of SecureFX's window you may see the transfer's
progress. Once it is complete, your window should resemble the one
depicted below:

image:FXUsing4.jpg[FXUsing4.jpg,title="image"]

(Needless to say, in this screenshot, 'username' uploaded 'Oscartime.sb'
from his or her desktop to his or her ~/cs50/ directory. )
