---
tags: []
title: Cryptanalysis
---
Cryptanalysis is the study of codebreaking. Whereas the aim of
cryptography is to devise methods and algorithms for encrypting
messages, the aim of cryptanalysis is to devise methods and algorithms
for decrypting those same messages.

Although other techniques abound, the most common technique of
cryptanalysis is brute force. In the Hacker Edition of Problem Set 2,
for example, you were tasked with cryptanalyzing passwords that had been
encrypted by the built-in `crypt` function. To do so, you might have
tried passing combinations of letters and numbers to `crypt` until the
output matched the encrypted password. This was a brute-force technique.

The security of cryptographic algorithms is loosely measured by the
amount of time it would take to crack them by brute force. In the case
of link:Caesar cipher[Caesar cipher], for example, because the keyspace
is very small (26), it may only take seconds or minutes to crack it by
brute force, i.e. trying each of the 26 possible keys. As a result,
link:Caesar cipher[Caesar cipher] is generally considered to be
insecure.

However, an algorithm like RSA with 1024- or 2048-bit keys would take on
the order of years or lifetimes to crack using brute force with current
hardware. Generally speaking, the security of cryptographic algorithms
depends upon the fact that two very large prime numbers can be
multiplied in polynomial time to produce a key, but that key can only be
factored in exponential time. If you want to become rich beyond your
wildest dreams or perhaps bring the world to its knees, just prove that
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P_versus_NP_problem[P = NP].

Category: Week 2[Category: Week 2]
