---
tags: []
title: Programming_contests
---

http://www.ecs.csus.edu/pc2/[PC^2^]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This seems like a pretty popular option. According to the website, it is
the system that the http://cm.baylor.edu/welcome.icpc[ACM-ICPC] uses.
The entire thing runs in Java, has a score board, works with C, and we'd
be able to run it on our own website. Unfortunately, it is not
open-source, so we'd be somewhat stuck with what we get. Also, I'm not
really sure how geared it is toward the types of contests we might run,
so I'd have to look more into how tweakable the stuff is if this is the
best-looking option.


http://spoj.pl[SPOJ]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another supposedly popular one, but with this one they only run
exclusively on their own website. Maybe it's not a good sign that as I'm
trying to look at the site right now it's not loading. So anyway, from
what I remember we could have our own "group" with just a quick email
and we'd give the password out for contests in CS50 so they can access
the contest problems and what not. They support tons of languages, so
it's nothing we'd have to worry about. To be honest, the site didn't
seem that great, but it's possible that with access to the "create a
contest" tools it could be really intuitive.


`code.google.com` options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The advantage to these options is that we'd have the source code in our
hands, and would consequently be able to implement things to our liking.
On the other hand, it's hard to tell exactly how real-world tested they
are compared to the two above. Both of them seem fairly similar since
they describe themselves in such abstract terms.


http://code.google.com/p/codechecker/[codechecker]
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This one seems somewhat better than the latter. It was updated only 3
days ago, so they seem to be on top of working on it. They have a more
thorough documentation and a relatively simple setup.


http://code.google.com/p/hackzor/[Hackzor]
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This one hasn't been updated in about a year, so I'm not really sure
finished of a product it is. Either way, looking at the source code, it
could be a good framework.


http://topcoder.com[TopCoder] and http://codechef.com[CodeChef]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For comprehensiveness, there's always these options too.
